Citation: Doregar Zavareh, R.; Dana,
T.; Roayaei, E.; Monavari, S.M.; Jozi,
S.A. The Environmental Risk
Assessment of Fire and Explosion in
Storage Tanks of Petroleum Products.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
su141710747
Academic Editor: Lucian-Ionel
Cioca
Received: 16 July 2022
Accepted: 25 August 2022
Published: 29 August 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Article
The Environmental Risk Assessment of Fire and Explosion in
Storage Tanks of Petroleum Products
Razieh Doregar Zavareh 1, Tooraj Dana 1,*, Emad Roayaei 2, Seyed Massoud Monavari 1 and Seyed Ali Jozi 3
1 Department of Natural Resources and Environment, Science and Research Branch,
Islamic Azad University, Tehran 1477893855, Iran
2 Department of Health, Safety &Environment, Petroleum University of Technology,
Abadan P .O. Box 63187-14317, Iran
3 Department of Environment, North Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran 1477893855, Iran
* Correspondence: tooraj_da@yahoo.com; Tel.: +98-9125011036
Abstract: The present study provides a framework for assessing the environmental risk associated
with ﬁre and explosion of gasoline storage tanks in oil depots. The proposed framework includes
three main steps: problem formulation, risk analysis, and risk description. The necessary basic
details were identiﬁed and collected in formulating the problem. The source, pathway, receptor
(SPR) model was employed in the risk analysis process. Each part was analyzed using tools that
provide appropriate results and maintain the model integrity; additionally, the ﬁndings can be used
in the whole process. The Dow Fire and Explosion Index (F&EI) was deployed to scrutinize the
source, the pollutant dispersion and transmission path characteristics were measured to inspect the
pathway, and the vulnerability indicators of the receptor and the degree of impact were determined
to scrutinize the receptor. Finally, the risk assessment results were presented in the form of risk
description tables. The purpose of this integration was to develop a framework thoroughly evaluating
the risk associated with ﬁre and explosion to the point of environmental consequences and providing
a better understanding of the outcomes. This study, conducted for the ﬁrst time speciﬁcally for an oil
depot, provides an exhaustive view highly contributing to managers and decision makers.
Keywords: environmental risk assessment; storage tanks; ﬁre and explosion; gasoline; SPR
1. Introduction
In oil depots and reﬁneries, large quantities of petroleum products are temporarily
stored for upcoming transmissions. These products are typically stored in ﬂoating-roof
tanks and ﬁxed-roof tanks [1]. The ﬂoating-roof storage tanks are cylinder-shaped tanks
characterized by their movable roof covering the liquid surface, ﬂoating up or down with
the level of liquid [2]. Floating-roof storage tanks mitigate the product losses caused by
evaporation; however, the consequences of incidents related to this type of tank can be
considerably catastrophic [ 3]. Floating-roof storage tanks are highly threatening [ 4–7].
Concomitant with the increasing global demand for energy, the storage of liquid fuel in
oil terminals has also expanded, and this, in turn, may enhance the probability of ﬁres,
explosions, and release of toxic substances, of which ﬁre is the most common incident [8].
Oil depot accidents may cause destructive damage to the environment [6,9]. Environ-
mental consequences can, per se, turn out to be even more crucial than economic damages
because the former may highly draw the attention of the media and that of the general
public and subsequently disgrace the organization [10]. The ERA index is a preferential ap-
proach to evaluating environmental hazards because it is a simple method decision makers
can easily use [11]. The ERA is the process of identifying and evaluating potential adverse
impacts (i.e., exposure to chemical or non-chemical substances released from industrial
activities) upon organisms, populations, or communities. The environment consists of
multiple factors, e.g., water, air, plants, and animals; hence, experts’ views on these factors
Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747. https://doi.org/10.3390/su141710747 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 2 of 17
are required to achieve the ﬁnal result [12]. The ecological risk assessment is utilized in risk
management by decision makers who amalgamate risk assessment results with economic,
political, and social considerations to improve people’s quality of life [13]. Noteworthily,
industries are responsible for mitigating the environmental risks they cause [14].
The concept of risk was ﬁrst put forth by Pascal (1657) along with the invention of
probability theory [15]. Risk assessment has a crucial role in evaluating the consequences
of potential accidents; moreover, it is a noticeable tool for developing preventive strategies
and measures to reduce potential damages [16,17].
There are many quantitative and qualitative methods for risk assessment, e.g., HAZOP ,
MADM, MCDM, FTA, and FMEA. The qualitative methods help to identify risks and obtain
an overview of risk. Quantitative methods contribute to estimating the consequences and
examining the pertinent details; accordingly, they can be employed to provide a more
accurate plan to reduce risk. Integrating the qualitative and quantitative methods can help
manage risks more effectively [18].
Numerous studies have dealt with the root cause analysis and risk assessment of ﬁres
and explosions in oil industries. Xie et al. [ 19] used an amalgam of several methods to
assess the risk of ﬁres and explosions in oil depots. Bouaﬁa et al. [3] analyzed the gasoline
release of storage tanks using HAZID and bow-tie methods and modeled the affected areas
with PHAST software. Guo et al. [ 20] assessed the risk of storage tank accidents using
the fuzzy Bayesian network based on the similarity aggregation method. Combining a
risk matrix and the bow-tie model, Luo et al. [21] and Lu et al. [10] assessed the safety of
natural gas spherical tanks and gas pipelines, respectively. In investigating a large reﬁnery,
Zhao et al. [22] evaluated the ﬁre or explosion risk in oil terminals using the Dow F&EI.
Fu et al. [23] examined the risk of liqueﬁed natural gas leakage from LNG-fueled vessels
by deﬁning appropriate and complementary steps. Wang and Song [ 24] also classiﬁed
the study site safety using the Dow F&EI. Wu and Chen [ 25] presented a quantitative
assessment of oil tank ﬁres caused by lightning.
There are also studies dedicated to environmental risk assessment. For instance, Vora
et al. [ 12] proposed an environmental risk assessment framework for produced water
discharges, drilling discharges, and emissions from EOR solutions in the process of oil
extraction. Zele ˇ náková and Zvijáková [26] identiﬁed 26 parameters following negotiating
with experts, conducting ﬁeld studies, and reviewing the literature to assess the environ-
mental effects of ﬂooding. Qinqin et al. [ 27] determined the environmental risk sources
of ﬁre and explosion in the petrochemical industry using bow-tie analysis and evaluated
the environmental risk via an integrated ERA index. Topuz et al. [ 14] also employed
three factors to examine the environmental risk and human health in industries using
hazardous substances.
Shahriar et al. [28] analyzed the risk of gas and oil pipelines using the bow-tie method
and assessed the consequences in three categories (social, environmental, and economic)
following experts’ opinions. To assess the risk of an oil spill at the water surface, Bi and
Si [29] identiﬁed the consequences in four categories: environmental, economic, health-
threatening, and social using the AHP technique and experts’ opinions. Yari et al. [30] used
the fuzzy hierarchical analysis method to identify environmental risks. MADM methods
are efﬁcient in risk assessment and management and help managers in making decisions.
Yari et al. [31] used this method to manage blasting operations.
Various studies address the risk assessment of oil tank explosion or ﬁre and identify
the causes and safety dimensions of these accidents. There are also studies on the environ-
mental consequences of risks in process industries. However, the present study proposed
an integrated and step-by-step risk assessment framework for ﬁre and gasoline explosions
in oil depots and the environmental consequences of such accidents.
The conceptual model of this research is supported by basic and accepted methods,
and its steps have been implemented using innovative methods in a way that has led to the
integration and correct understanding of environmental risk assessment. The main basis of
this study was created according to the three basic stages of EPA’s ecological risk assessment,

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 3 of 17
including problem formulation, risk analysis, and risk description. The SPR method was
used for risk analysis, which shows the risk process, including the beginning (occurrence of
the accident) to the end (consequences). EPA risk analysis is more appropriate for a species
and assesses the interaction of stressors with organisms and the response to stressors, which
requires detailed data. The SPR method analyzes an accident in a comprehensive and
integrated way. This study was done without the need to require detailed data (in some
of steps) that is usually associated with challenges. Therefore, an innovative method is
presented that can be useful for risk managers of high-risk industries.
2. Materials and Methods
Following the primary ecological risk assessment framework provided by the US
Environmental Protection Agency [ 32] and various studies [ 12,17,27,33,34], the present
study proposed a comprehensible, easy-to-use, practical, and holistic environmental risk
assessment. The chief phases of the proposed ERA framework are presented in Figure 1.
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 18 
 
The conceptual model of this research is supported by basic and accepted methods, 
and its steps have been implem ented using innovative methods in a way that has led to 
the integration and correct understanding of  environmental risk assessment. The main 
basis of this study was created according to the three basic stages of EPA’s ecological risk 
assessment, including problem formulation, risk analysis, and risk description. The SPR 
method was used for risk analysis, which shows the risk process, including the beginning 
(occurrence of the accident) to the end (conse quences). EPA risk analysis is more appro-
priate for a species and assesses the interact ion of stressors with organisms and the re-
sponse to stressors, which requires detailed data. The SPR method analyzes an accident 
in a comprehensive and integrated way. This study was done without the need to require 
detailed data (in some of steps) that is usua lly associated with challenges. Therefore, an 
innovative method is presented that can be useful for risk managers of high-risk indus-
tries. 
2. Materials and Methods 
Following the primary ecological risk assessment framework provided by the US En-
vironmental Protection Agency [32] and various studies [12,17,27,33,34], the present study 
proposed a comprehensible, easy-to-use, practical, and holistic environmental risk assess-
ment. The chief phases of the proposed ERA framework are presented in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. The proposed conceptual model. 
2.1. Problem Formulation 
Problem formulation is the first step in ERA. The data associated with the site inves-
tigation, the ecological condition of the region, the accident of crucial concern, the concep-
tual model of risk assessment, and the assessment endpoint are evaluated in this phase. 
2.1.1. Problem Statement 
The consequences of accidents can cause da mage to plants, human health, the envi-
ronment, and ecology [27]. Considering the storage of gasoline as a flammable chemical 
in floating-roof oil tanks and reviewing the related incidents and research on oil depots, 
fire and explosion were chosen as the most critical risk and their environmental risk was 
set as the study objective. Floating-roof oil tanks are the most vulnerable equipment in oil 
depots [6]. Fire and explosion were assessed using the Dow method. 
Figure 1. The proposed conceptual model.
2.1. Problem Formulation
Problem formulation is the ﬁrst step in ERA. The data associated with the site investi-
gation, the ecological condition of the region, the accident of crucial concern, the conceptual
model of risk assessment, and the assessment endpoint are evaluated in this phase.
2.1.1. Problem Statement
The consequences of accidents can cause damage to plants, human health, the envi-
ronment, and ecology [27]. Considering the storage of gasoline as a ﬂammable chemical
in ﬂoating-roof oil tanks and reviewing the related incidents and research on oil depots,
ﬁre and explosion were chosen as the most critical risk and their environmental risk was
set as the study objective. Floating-roof oil tanks are the most vulnerable equipment in oil
depots [6]. Fire and explosion were assessed using the Dow method.
2.1.2. Case Study
In this research, an oil depot was considered in a case study due to its important role
in providing fuel for the Tehran metropolis. This oil depot is located in the vicinity of
residential areas in the northwestern part of a city. Figure 2 exhibits a satellite image of the
study site.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 4 of 17
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 18 
 
2.1.2. Case Study 
In this research, an oil depot was considered in a case study due to its important role 
in providing fuel for the Tehran metropolis. This oil depot is located in the vicinity of 
residential areas in the northwestern part of a city. Figure 2 exhibits a satellite image of 
the study site. 
 
Figure 2. Location of oil depot. 
2.1.3. The Ecological Status of the Study Site 
Table 1 summarizes the ecological status of the study site. 
  
Figure 2. Location of oil depot.
2.1.3. The Ecological Status of the Study Site
Table 1 summarizes the ecological status of the study site.
2.2. Risk Analysis
In this step, the risk analysis was performed following the approach shown in Figure 3.
It was intended to investigate the whole process from the starting point to the endpoint;
hence, the risk assessment process includes inspecting the release source, the exposure
pathway, and the effect receptor (SPR).
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 18 
 
Table 1. Location and ecological status of the study site. 
Parameter Description 
Geographical  
coordinates 
Latitudes: between 35°46′55″ and 35°46′43″ N 
Longitude: between 51°17′43″ and 51°18′6″ E 
Climate Moderate: the average da ily temperature is 17.4 °C 
Distance to  
settlements 
From the North: there is no settlement. 
From the South: the border of the oil depot near the restaurants located in District 5 of Tehran 
Municipality. 
From the East: 435 m from the Hesarak district 
From the West: 25 m from a residential complex with 12,000 square meters and 167 m from 
Kuhsar Forest Park. 
Wind direction West (W) 
Surface water Hesarak River flows along the eastern and southern boundary of the oil depot 
Kan River is located about 2.8 km from the western border of this oil depot 
Groundwater level Approximately equal or more than 130 m 
Flooding risk 
The oil depot under study located in the northwest of a city is subject to instability caused by 
flooding due to its proximity to the Kan River basin, the high relative share of constructions, 
relatively high density of population and housing, land-use changes, encroachment on the river 
bank and its bed, and improper exploitation of watercourse. 
Geology Upper red formation, conglomerate, and sandstone 
Fault The south of the site bordering a fault 
Areas with environ-
mental protection 
The study site is located in none of the zones protected by the Environment Organization of 
Iran and international authorities; moreover, it lacks the characteristics of natural areas contain-
ing specific plant and animal species. 
Socio-economic status The study site is located on the northern edge of a city. The populations of the mentioned dis-
trict and this city are 858,346 and 8,737,510 people, respectively. 
2.2. Risk Analysis 
In this step, the risk analysis was performed following the approach shown in  Figure 
3. It was intended to investigate the whole process from the starting point to the endpoint; 
hence, the risk assessment process includes inspecting the release source, the exposure 
pathway, and the effect receptor (SPR). 
 
Figure 3. The environmental risk assessment associated with fire/explosion in this study. 
2.2.1. Source 
Here, the source refers to a critical accident that causes damage to the environment. 
In this study, the source refers to fire or explosion of a gasoline tank in the oil depot located 
in the northwestern region of a city. 
The hazards associated with the risk source correlate with the characteristics of the 
substance and the site. The hazardous properties of substances are usually defined as po-
tential dangers [14]. Furthermore, the process, equipment, and current site status may af-
fect the occurrence of an accident.
 
The Dow F&EI was employed to examine th e characteristics mentioned above. This 
index is widely used in the petrochemical industry. The index also covers aspects related 
Figure 3. The environmental risk assessment associated with ﬁre/explosion in this study.
2.2.1. Source
Here, the source refers to a critical accident that causes damage to the environment. In
this study, the source refers to ﬁre or explosion of a gasoline tank in the oil depot located in
the northwestern region of a city.
The hazards associated with the risk source correlate with the characteristics of the
substance and the site. The hazardous properties of substances are usually deﬁned as
potential dangers [14]. Furthermore, the process, equipment, and current site status may
affect the occurrence of an accident.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 5 of 17
The Dow F&EI was employed to examine the characteristics mentioned above. This
index is widely used in the petrochemical industry. The index also covers aspects related to
the inherent hazards of substances, operating conditions, quantities used, and inﬂuential
hazard factors of petrochemical units. The factors inﬂuencing the process—classiﬁed as
material factors, special process hazard factors, and general process hazard factors—were
considered in the index calculation. To calculate the F&EI, a special value called the penalty
or penalty factor was assigned to each risk factor based on its degree of risk. An increased
penalty factor indicates a rise in the severity or likelihood of ﬁre and explosion risk. If a
factor fails to cause any damage or hazard, the penalty factor is assumed to be zero [35].
Table 1. Location and ecological status of the study site.
Parameter Description
Geographical
coordinates
Latitudes: between 35◦46′55′′ and 35◦46′43′′ N
Longitude: between 51◦17′43′′ and 51◦18′6′′ E
Climate Moderate: the average daily temperature is 17.4 ◦C
Distance to
settlements
From the North: there is no settlement.
From the South: the border of the oil depot near the restaurants located in District 5 of Tehran
Municipality.
From the East: 435 m from the Hesarak district
From the West: 25 m from a residential complex with 12,000 square meters and 167 m from
Kuhsar Forest Park.
Wind direction West (W)
Surface water Hesarak River ﬂows along the eastern and southern boundary of the oil depot
Kan River is located about 2.8 km from the western border of this oil depot
Groundwater level Approximately equal or more than 130 m
Flooding risk
The oil depot under study located in the northwest of a city is subject to instability caused by
ﬂooding due to its proximity to the Kan River basin, the high relative share of constructions,
relatively high density of population and housing, land-use changes, encroachment on the river
bank and its bed, and improper exploitation of watercourse.
Geology Upper red formation, conglomerate, and sandstone
Fault The south of the site bordering a fault
Areas with environmental protection
The study site is located in none of the zones protected by the Environment Organization of Iran
and international authorities; moreover, it lacks the characteristics of natural areas containing
speciﬁc plant and animal species.
Socio-economic status The study site is located on the northern edge of a city. The populations of the mentioned district
and this city are 858,346 and 8,737,510 people, respectively.
The stressors of ﬁre and explosion of gasoline storage tanks may result from (1) ignition
and thermal radiation, (2) toxic cloud dispersion, (3) liquid ﬂow, and (4) increased level of
noise and vibration [3].
2.2.2. Pathway
The pollutant-transmitting pathways include water, soil, and air [12,27,34]. The path-
way is examined in two ways: indicators determining the characteristics of the pollutant-
transmitting path and the dispersion range.
• Pathway characterization
(1) Air: ﬂoating masses of pollutants are likely to be dispersed; henceforth, the
local air pollution may expand and turn to regional air pollution. The prevail-
ing winds [36] and the region’s topographic position (the presence of physical
barriers) [37] have the highest impact on the distribution of air pollutants.
(2) Water: water supplies may transfer contaminants [38] (e.g., stored fuel, ﬁrewater,
and other extinguishing agents). The parameters overshadowing the exposure
probability of water resources (surface water and groundwater level) were also
identiﬁed.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 6 of 17
(3) Soil: permeability is the foremost factor affecting the distribution of soil con-
taminants. In this regard, the soil granularity, i.e., whether the soil is coarse- or
ﬁne-grain, may affect the permeability level.
• Dispersion level
Event tree analysis (ETA) is a deductive logic with a beneﬁcial graphical representation
that can help to identify the various consequences of a critical event [23]. The event tree
starts with the critical event and ends with the output events, i.e., consequences [ 28].
The traditional ETA assumption is access to accurate data, which is often unrealistic.
Therefore, it leads to incorrect results and challenges the objectives of risk analysis [ 39].
Applying a different approach, the present study employed, for the ﬁrst time, the graphical
representation of ETA to evaluate the distribution of environmental pollutants as a result
of ﬁre and explosion (as the consequence of ﬁre and explosion). The ETA method was used
to determine the pollutant distribution in air, water, and soil in this study. Actually, the
spread of pollution in water, soil, and air environments is the result of ﬁre and explosion.
The protection layers may affect the dispersion level; therefore, the opinions of experts
on the inﬂuence of each protection layer were asked for using the Delphi method, and
then the dispersion level was determined for each pathway. The event tree associated
with the pollutant dispersion caused by ﬁre and explosion is shown in Figure 4. This tree
started with the critical event of ﬁre and explosion; protective layers reduce the amount
of pollution spread in air, water, and soil environments, so the range of spread in each of
the pollution transfer environments is determined from extremely low to extremely high.
For example, after assessing the performance of the protective layers, experts predict that
the contamination by ﬁre and explosion in the air will spread at levels that are extremely
low, low, moderate, high, or extremely high. In the following sections, the characteristics of
each contamination transmission environment and the deﬁnitions of distribution leveling
are presented.
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 18 
 
 
Figure 4. The event tree associated with the pollutant dispersion caused by fire and explosion. 
The dispersion probability in each of the environments was determined based on the 
effectiveness of the identified protective layers  (barriers), which play an effective role in 
accident assessment [4]. Assuming that protective layers supplement each other, the pre-
sent study considered the total efficiency of the barriers in lessening the level of disper-
sion. In contrast, conventional ETA considers the success probability of every single pro-
tective layer in determining the type of upcoming events or accidents (Table 2 displays 
the dispersion pathways in the exposed environment. 
Table 2. Descriptions associated with the pollutant dispersion pathways. 
Pathway Description 
Air Air pollution 
Increased vibration and noise level 
Water Surface waters (Hesarak rivers) 
Groundwater 
Soil Surface soils and substrates 
To determine the limits of the distribution of pollution, and by reviewing the inci-
dents that have happened in Iran and the world, Table 3 was created and given to experts 
to score points.  The validity and reliability of the questionnaire were measured using con-
tent validity and Cronbach’s alpha, respectively. The pollutants may spread on-site or off-
site [12,23]. Due to the changes in the poll utant concentration during conveying within 
physical environments and the self-purifying ability of the environments identified (soil, 
water, and air), the significant effects of pollution and impacts upon the receptor may 
dispute distance, i.e., although pollutants are flowing through the environment, their se-
verity may recede. Therefore, pollutant disper sion is divided into two aspects, namely 
‘extent of dispersion’ and ‘extent of exposure.’ There is no source that specifically shows 
the level of dispersion of contamination. In fa ct, Table 3 is part of the innovation of the 
study and has an information gap. Therefore, by studying the accidents that have oc-
curred around the world and specifically the accidents recorded on the CSB website, sci-
entific studies and articles and expert opinions gained during the workshop sessions are 
presented in Table 3. 
Table 3. The pollutant dispersion. 
No. Dispersion Level Description 
Extent of Dispersion Extent of Exposure 
1 Extremely low Air, water, and soil: slight pollutant dispersion in the 
study site 
2 Low Air: ≥1000 m ≥500 m 
Figure 4. The event tree associated with the pollutant dispersion caused by ﬁre and explosion.
The dispersion probability in each of the environments was determined based on the
effectiveness of the identiﬁed protective layers (barriers), which play an effective role in
accident assessment [4]. Assuming that protective layers supplement each other, the present
study considered the total efﬁciency of the barriers in lessening the level of dispersion. In
contrast, conventional ETA considers the success probability of every single protective layer
in determining the type of upcoming events or accidents (Table 2 displays the dispersion
pathways in the exposed environment.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 7 of 17
Table 2. Descriptions associated with the pollutant dispersion pathways.
Pathway Description
Air Air pollutionIncreased vibration and noise level
Water Surface waters (Hesarak rivers)Groundwater
Soil Surface soils and substrates
To determine the limits of the distribution of pollution, and by reviewing the incidents
that have happened in Iran and the world, Table 3 was created and given to experts
to score points. The validity and reliability of the questionnaire were measured using
content validity and Cronbach’s alpha, respectively. The pollutants may spread on-site
or off-site [12,23]. Due to the changes in the pollutant concentration during conveying
within physical environments and the self-purifying ability of the environments identiﬁed
(soil, water, and air), the signiﬁcant effects of pollution and impacts upon the receptor
may dispute distance, i.e., although pollutants are ﬂowing through the environment, their
severity may recede. Therefore, pollutant dispersion is divided into two aspects, namely
‘extent of dispersion’ and ‘extent of exposure.’ There is no source that speciﬁcally shows
the level of dispersion of contamination. In fact, Table 3 is part of the innovation of the
study and has an information gap. Therefore, by studying the accidents that have occurred
around the world and speciﬁcally the accidents recorded on the CSB website, scientiﬁc
studies and articles and expert opinions gained during the workshop sessions are presented
in Table 3.
Table 3. The pollutant dispersion.
No. Dispersion Level
Description
Extent of Dispersion Extent of Exposure
1 Extremely low Air, water, and soil: slight pollutant dispersion in the
study site
2 Low
Air:≥1000 m ≥500 m
Water:≥2000 m ≥1000 m
Soil: slight pollutant dispersion off-site
3 Moderate
Air:≥3000 m ≥1000 m
Water:≥5000 m ≥3000 m
Soil:≥1500 m ≥1000 m
4 High
Air:≥6000 m ≥1500 m
Water:≥10,000 m ≥8000 m
Soil:≥2000 m ≥1500 m
5 Extremely high
Air:≥15,000 m ≥2500 m
Water:≥15,000 m ≥10,000 m
Soil:≥2500 m ≥2000 m
2.2.3. Receptor
The third level of assessment dealt with the receptor characterization and its vulnerabil-
ity to the effects of the accident. The biological and socio-economic indicators were deﬁned
to assess the vulnerability of environmental receptors. The receptors were examined from
two aspects: the receptor vulnerability and degree of impact.
• Receptor vulnerability
Biological Indicators
The foremost goal in assessing environmental risk is to measure the vulnerability of
ecological receptors [27]. Accordingly, the hazard level is determined using the important
indicators identiﬁed for this purpose. Environmental components likely to be exposed and

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 8 of 17
affected include terrestrial ecosystems, plants and animals, and population density [14].
The indicators identiﬁed in this regard are as follows:
• Protected areas (of ecological value) [38].
• Animals: the indigenous and introduced species in the affected area or species with a
degree of protection [26,38].
• Plants: on-site green spaces, plants of Kuhsar forest park, self-sown plants, and hand
plants in Tehran city or species of conservation value [36,38].
Socio-Economic Indicators
• Socio-economic parameters include human-related indicators and provide the extent
of damage to mankind as part of the environment. The most important indicators
identiﬁed are as follows:
• Population density: the number of people per unit area in the affected area [26,27,38,40].
• Man-made land-use changes: the type of man-made changes that may endanger
human life and exacerbate the condition in the case of being damaged [ 26,27]. In
assessing the damage to land uses (industry, agriculture, tourism, housing, etc.), the
activities and land uses of the region are of strategic importance.
• Disruption in fuel supply: it is of crucial importance owing to its prominent role in the
economy, welfare, security, national image, and the occurrence of chaos.
• Historical and cultural areas: the registered sites, buildings, and places that are histori-
cally and culturally valuable [29].
• Severity of impact
Based on reviewing the related accidents in Iran and abroad and applying the experts’
opinions, the severity score of the environmental impacts is provided in Table 4 [ 23,41].
The validity and reliability of the questionnaire were measured using content validity
and Cronbach’s alpha, respectively. Health effects depend on the type of the contami-
nant, its concentration, duration of exposure, other existing pollutants, and individual
sensitivity [42].
Table 4. The severity of impact.
No. Degree Description
1 Extremely low No impact
2 Low Biological: minor effects on the green space of the site
Human-related: reversible effects on personnel health
3 Moderate Biological: minor off-site effects
Human-related: reversible effects on citizens’ health/severe injuries
to the site personnel
4 High Biological: acute off-site effects
Human-relate: acute effects on citizens’ health/death or severe
injuries to several site personnel
5 Extremely high Biological: acute and long-term effects off-site
Human-related: severe injuries to or death of several citizens
2.3. Risk Description
Risk assessment is a systematic and scientiﬁc method used to prognosticate and pre-
vent adverse risk-related events by collecting and integrating qualitative and quantitative
data [28]. Risk description is the last step in the environmental risk assessment process. At
this stage, the risk assessors use the analysis phase results to estimate the risk and report
the results to the risk managers. In this study, the results obtained in each part of the risk
analysis were systematically presented to risk managers.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 9 of 17
3. Results
3.1. Problem Formulation
The purpose of the problem formulation is to identify the problem under scrutiny. In
the present study, the following elements were identiﬁed to better understand the problem
at hand:
• Study site: an oil depot in the northwest of a city, speciﬁcally gasoline storage tanks.
• The site ecology: the site in question is located in the northwest region of a city (the
site’s ecological characterization was presented in the previous section).
• The accident of foremost concern: ﬁre and explosion.
• Conceptual model: risk analysis using the SPR model.
• Endpoint and objective: mitigating risk and preserving the environment.
3.2. Risk Analysis
Figure 5 shows a schematic of the steps and parameters involved in risk analysis. The
results of each section are separately presented in the following sections.
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 18 
 
 
Figure 5. The steps and parameters of environmental risk analysis. 
3.2.1. Source 
Calculation of the Dow F&EI 
The results associated with each phase of the F&EI calculations are presented in Table 
5. 
Table 5. Gasoline material factor and properties. 
Material MF HC(BTU/LB) 
×103 
NFPA CLASSIFICATION Flash Point 
(Deg F) 
Boiling Point 
(Deg F) N(R) N(F) N(H) 
Gasoline 16 18.8 1 3 0 −45 100–400 
General process hazards factor (F1) 
Base factors Penalty factor range Penalty factor used 
Base factor 1 1 
Material handling and transfer 0.25–1.05 0.85 
Access 0.2–0.35 0 
Drainage and spill control 0.25–0.5 0.20 
General process factor 2.05 
Special process hazards factor (F2) 
Base factors Penalty factor range  Penalty factor used 
Base factor 1  1 
Toxic materials 0.8–0.2  0.2 
Sub-atmospheric pressure 0.5  0 
Operation near flammable materials 0.8–0.3  0.5 
Low temperature 0.2–0.3 0  
Quantity of flammable-unstable material  1.57 
Corrosion and erosion 0.1–0.75 0  
Figure 5. The steps and parameters of environmental risk analysis.
3.2.1. Source
Calculation of the Dow F&EI
The results associated with each phase of the F&EI calculations are presented in Table 5.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 10 of 17
Table 5. Gasoline material factor and properties.
Material MF HC(BTU/LB)
×103
NFPA CLASSIFICATION Flash Point
(Deg F)
Boiling Point
(Deg F)N(R) N(F) N(H)
Gasoline 16 18.8 1 3 0 −45 100–400
General process hazards factor (F1)
Base factors Penalty factor range Penalty factor used
Base factor 1 1
Material handling and transfer 0.25–1.05 0.85
Access 0.2–0.35 0
Drainage and spill control 0.25–0.5 0.20
General process factor 2.05
Special process hazards factor (F2)
Base factors Penalty factor range Penalty factor used
Base factor 1 1
Toxic materials 0.8–0.2 0.2
Sub-atmospheric pressure 0.5 0
Operation near ﬂammable materials 0.8–0.3 0.5
Low temperature 0.2–0.3 0
Quantity of ﬂammable-unstable material 1.57
Corrosion and erosion 0.1–0.75 0
Leakage from joins and packing 0.1–1.5 0
Uses of ﬁred equipment 0
Hot oil heat exchange system 0.15–1.15 0
Rotating equipment 0.5 0.5
Special process hazards factor 3.77
Degree of Hazard
After calculating the process risk factors, the F&EI of gasoline tanks was measured
via Equation (1) by multiplying the unit risk factor (F3) values by the material factor (MF).
According to Dow guidelines, 5 degrees of hazard are set. The index obtained in this study
equaled 123.52 for the gasoline tank, which is in the moderate risk range.
F&EI = F3× MF = 7.72× 16 = 123.52 (1)
The F&EI Hazard Zone Measurement
According to the results associated with the Dow F&EI, the zone of the accident caused
by the ﬁre and the explosion of a gasoline tank in an oil depot was measured to be 31 m.
R = 0.84× X = 0.84× 123.52 = 103.75 F = 31 m (2)
A = Π R2 = 33816 F2 = 3019 M2 (3)
There is at least one more tank in each zone of the four gasoline tanks.
3.2.2. Pathway
The characteristics of the exposure pathway and the exposure range were measured
to investigate the role of the exposure pathway in environmental risk assessment.
Pathway Characterization
Considering the characteristics of the pathway, the degree of environmental hazard
may vary. Therefore, the pathways were characterized following the investigation into the
current ecological status (Table 6).

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 11 of 17
Table 6. The results associated with the pathway characterization.
Parameter Index Score
1 2 3 4 5
Air
Prevailing winds Away from
residential areas
Toward the margins
of the city
Towards the
promenade
Towards
villages/low-density
settle-
ments/natural area
Toward the
city/valuable
ecological areas
Topographic position Plain Adjacent to
Mahur hill
The foot of the
mountain and the
probability of
air trapping
Water
Groundwater level
Groundwater level
more than 10 m/no
well and spring at a
distance of about
1500 m
Groundwater level
more than 5 m/no
well and spring at a
distance of about
700 m
Groundwater level
more than 5 m/wells
and springs at a
distance of
approximately 300 m
Adjacent to wells,
aqueducts, and
springs/exploited
groundwater level
about 5 m or less
Adjacent to wells,
springs, and
aqueducts/exploited
groundwater level
less than 5 m
Surface water
Lack of permanent
water resources at a
distance of about
2000 m
Permanent bodies of
surface water at a
distance of about
1500 m
A permanent river at
a distance of about
500 m
Adjacent to rivers,
lakes, and other
surface water sources
Adjacent to rivers,
lakes, and other
surface water
resources of special
ecological
importance or
overﬂow to areas of
ecological
value/habitat of
special species
Soil
Soil permeability Fine-grained Coarse-/ﬁne-grained Coarse-/ﬁne-grained Coarse-grained
Dispersion Level
The results associated with the level of pollutant dispersion in water, soil, and air were
obtained using the graphic-mathematical ETA method, analyzing the related accidents
and surveying experts. The protective layer potential in effectively reducing the ﬁre
and explosion consequences was also determined using the Delphi method. The ﬁnal
results related to the ranking of protection layers are presented in Table 7. Kendall’s τ and
Cronbach’s alpha coefﬁcients were measured at 0.73 and 0.72, respectively.
Table 7. The performance scores of protective layers in mitigating F&EI consequences.
No. Protective Layer Score
1 Alarm systems warning to (1) people on the site and (2) service
organizations such as the ﬁre department 4.846
2 Cooling of adjacent equipment and structures with portable sprinklers
(Deluge system) 4.846
3 Emergency response plan 4.769
4 Urgent medical measures 4.154
5 Evacuating staff from the site 4.154
6 Fixed foam system (foam injection from the top of the tank) 4.077
7 Portable foam system 4.077
8 Cooling adjacent equipment and structures with water spray using
portable devices 4
9 Drawing material from the tank 3.923
10 Monitoring surrounding areas by observing or patrolling personnel 3.923
11 Gas detectors that constantly monitor the surrounding areas 3.923
12 Evacuating residents adjacent to the site 3.923
13 Equipping tanks with an automatic deluge system 3.308
14 Fixed foam system (foam injection from the bottom of the tank) 3.154
The pollutant dispersion in air, water, and soil was estimated by considering the
function of the protective layers (Table 8). The validity and reliability of this section were

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 12 of 17
conﬁrmed by experts’ opinions and Cronbach’s alpha (which was more than 0.7 (0.78)),
respectively.
Table 8. The results of pollutant dispersion in all exposed environments.
No. Exposed Environment Dispersion
1 Air 4.46
2 Water 4.15
3 Soil 3.46
3.2.3. Receptor
The results associated with the impacts on the receptor are presented in two parts
as follows:
Receptor Vulnerability
The vulnerability of the receptor, considering its current position in the region, is
shown in Table 9.
Table 9. The receptor vulnerability to the hazards caused by ﬁre and explosion.
Parameter Index Score
1 2 3 4 5
Biologic
Ecological
areas
Lack of protected area
exposed to damage
Distance between 200
and 3000 m to areas
under the protection of
the Environment
Organization or other
national and
international authorities
and forest reserves
Distance between 1000
and 2000 m to areas
under the protection of
the Environment
Organization or other
national and
international authorities
and forest reserves
Distance less than 1000
m to areas under the
protection of the
Environment
Organization or other
national and
international authorities
and forest reserves
In or adjacent to areas of
recorded
ecological value
Animals No/very few animals
Species without
conservation value and
non-endemic
Vulnerable species One species of
conservation value
A species of
conservation value
Plants No/very little
vegetation
Urban green space
(shrubs and bushes)
Hand-plant trees
(non-fruitful)
Natural
vegetation/fruitful
trees/agriculture as
well as hand-plant trees
and green space
Natural vegetation (of
conservation value)
Socioeconomic
Population density No population 20 74 153 250
Man-made land-uses
No residential,
industrial, service, or
commercial land use
Micro-scale commercial
land use Commercial land use Industrial, service, and
commercial land uses
Emergency response
centers (ﬁre department,
medical
centers)/residential
land use/oil ﬁelds or
similar areas
Fuel providing Supporting site Duty to fueling intercity
gas stations
Storage of one type of
fuel/tank with a
capacity of fewer than
3 million liters
Contains more than one
type of fuel in
storage/tanks with a
capacity of more than
3 million liters l
Historical and
cultural areas
No registered area of
the historical and
cultural area
Registered areas of
regional value
Registered areas of
national value
Registered areas of
national and
supra-regional value
Registered areas of
international and
national value
Severity of Impact
Table 10 presents the extent of potential impacts on the receptors. The reliability of
this questionnaire was measured at 0.76 using Cronbach’s alpha.
Table 10. The results of the severity of impacts.
Exposed Aspect Extent of Potential Impacts
Biologic 2.4
Socioeconomic 4.7

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 13 of 17
3.3. Risk Description
The results associated with each part, viz. source, pathway, and receptor, are presented
in Table 11 to conclude the ﬁndings and describe the potential hazards.
Table 11. Risk description.
Source Pathway Receptor
Group
The
characteristics
of site and
substances
Pathway
characteristics Pollutant dispersion (exposure) Receptor
vulnerability Degree of impact
Method Dow Index Questionnaire Index Questionnaire
Results 3 of 5 Results
presented in
Table 6
Air Water Soil Results
presented in
Table 9
Biologic Human-
related
4.4 4.1 3.4 4.2 4.7
4. Discussion
In this study, the environmental risk assessment was conducted via integrating com-
plementary methods. In the future, this method can be employed as a structured framework
to investigate oil depots in different geographical locations and conditions as well as other
sectors of the oil industry (reﬁneries and petrochemicals, to name a few). A variety of
techniques used in risk assessment can be considered complements rather than substitutes
because each technique evaluates the system under analysis in a distinct way and from a
speciﬁc perspective. It is scientiﬁcally proven that no technique is adequately powerful
enough to answer all questions, or applicable to all conditions. In this research, the problem
was ﬁrst formulated as a step-by-step study. Then, the SPR model was applied to analyze
the impacts. The source characterization was carried out using the Dow index. Following
the calculation of three identiﬁed factors (material factor, general process hazard factor,
and certain process hazard factor), the extent of hazard lay at a medium range and the ﬁre
zone and the affected radius were measured at 31 m and 3019 square meters, respectively.
Considering the similar characterization of four gasoline tanks, the result can be generalized
to other tanks as well; therefore, the probable scenarios can be formed as follows:
1. If tank No. 3 has a ﬁre accident, according to the Dow method calculations, the
ﬁre will affect a radius of 31 m, in which two storage tanks, including tank No. 1
containing diesel and tank No. 5 containing gasoline, are located, which can possibly
inﬂuence it.
2. If a ﬁre or explosion occurs in Tank No. 5, subsequently, Tank No. 3 containing
gasoline will also be in danger.
3. If tank No. 5 has a ﬁre accident, there is a tank within 31 m of it, including tank No. 3
containing gasoline, which is likely to be affected by the accident.
4. If tank No. 11 has a ﬁre incident, tank No. 3 containing gasoline and tank No. 8
containing kerosene will be affected.
5. If a ﬁre occurs in Tank No. 10, subsequently, Tank No. 11 and Tank No. 9 containing
gasoline and diesel, respectively, will also be in the danger zone.
In fact, if any of the four tanks containing gasoline has a ﬁre accident, the other tanks
that are in their danger zone will probably be affected and catch ﬁre as well. Immediate
and correct actions regarding risk managers are very important because affecting the tanks
located in the danger radius will possibly spread the ﬁre, affecting more tanks. Each of
these scenarios that actually shows the domino effect needs separate studies. Therefore,
the time, cost, quality, and focus of studies are limiting factors. It may be better to model
one of the most extreme scenarios with appropriate methods. This scenario is probably
primary because it sees more tanks in close proximity than the other scenarios.
6. The control room, ofﬁces, and machinery station should be distanced at least 31 m
from the fuel tanks.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 14 of 17
According to the study by Bouaﬁa et al. [3], the exposure area of a fuel tank containing
a maximum of 2,500,000 L of gasoline was measured to be 1963 square meters using the
Phast pool ﬁre model. Even though their estimated value is less than the exposure area
calculated in the present study, it is somewhat justiﬁable by taking into account the lower
volume of fuel; however, the role of other factors should not be overlooked.
Since the oil depot of concern is located at the northwestern border of a city (365 m
from the Hesarak district), and also regarding the presence of restaurants in the vicinity of
this oil depot, safety is a matter of crucial importance because in the event of an accident,
not only will the oil depot operation shut off but also considerable environmental and
especially human damages will follow.
The pathways were characterized using a ﬁve-point scale to analyze the exposure
pathway (water, soil, and air). To this end, some indicators were deﬁned for each of the
pathways. Due to the prevailing wind ﬂowing toward the city, the location of the oil
depot—at the foot of the mountain—and the possibility of air trapping, a score of ﬁve was
allocated to the air pathway. Groundwater received a score of 1, and surface water received
a score of 4 due to the proximity of the Hesarak River to the oil depot in question. Given the
varied granularity of the site soil, i.e., coarse-grain and ﬁne-grain, the permeability received
a score of 4. The scope of pollutant dispersion was plotted using the graphic-mathematical
ETA method. Protective layers mitigating dispersion were identiﬁed and rated using the
Delphi method, and then the dispersion level in each environment at exposure, i.e., air,
water, and soil, was scored by experts using the Likert scale. According to the ﬁndings,
air, water, and soil had the highest dispersion, in the stated order. The effects on receptors
were evaluated in the risk analysis process. To this end, the receptor vulnerability was
ﬁrst analyzed using a ﬁve-point scale by deﬁning the indicators that determine the current
situation. From the biological aspect, the parameter of the ecological area was assigned a
score of 1 due to the lack of an area under environmental protection, the animal parameter
was given a score of 2 due to the lack of both endemic species and species of conservation
value, and the plant parameter received a score of 4 owing to natural vegetation (albeit
scant), fruitful trees, agriculture, and urban green spaces. The highest impacts pointed
to the socio-economic aspect. In this regard, the population density and man-made land
use parameters were assigned a score of 5 due to the proximity of the Tehran metropolis.
Similarly, the fueling (fuel supply) parameter, an economically notable parameter affecting
national image, chaos, and public welfare, received a score of 5. As there is no registered
historical and cultural site in the exposure area, this parameter was assigned a score of 1.
According to experts’ opinions, the average exposure intensities of socio-economic and
biological receptors were estimated at 4.7 and 2.4, respectively.
Risk description using the SPR model can substantially help risk appraisers, decision
makers, and managers to develop a plan and reduce and control risks and related conse-
quences. The score of the F&EI—ranked third out of ﬁve—showed the high possibility of
pollutants’ movement through air and water, and high vulnerability of receptors—as iden-
tiﬁed in this study—especially mankind, proving the importance of the F&EI as a hazard
of crucial concern in the study site, which is required to be taken into account. Therefore,
examining the safety of the site with the latest and most valid methods; controlling and
managing the potential causes of danger; mitigating the quantity of fuel storage in this
depot; determining the feasibility of site relocation by observing safety, environmental,
technical, and economic issues; and diminishing operations seem to be of great necessity.
The knowledge related to the source, pathway, receptor model for the fate of microplas-
tics in the environment has been investigated in a previous study [34].
Vora et al. [12] proposed an ERA framework for the EOR solutions in the process of oil
extraction in three main steps, viz., problem formulation, risk analysis, and risk description.
In the present applied study, the source, pathway, receptor model was employed to analyze
risk for a case study, while the studies mentioned above were merely a review of previously
published research.

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 15 of 17
5. Conclusions
In this study, the basis of the model was formed using the basic approaches and
acceptable frameworks of ERA of EPA and SPR. In the form of a conceptual model, the
objectives of the study include risk assessment from the beginning and occurrence of the
accident to the end, and its environmental consequences.
Considering that the environmental risk assessment in this study starts from the ﬁre
and explosion accident, each step was done in a speciﬁc way.
An appropriate and integrated combination of methods was performed for environ-
mental risk assessment. Comprehensive visibility helped make the output of the technical
methods (Dow) a, appropriate input for environmental assessment.
Since the risk rating obtained by the Dow method is in the middle class, due to the
conditions of the pathways, especially the air, and the proximity of the oil storage to a
large city, which includes the vulnerability of the receptors, the management plan risk is
important, which can be presented during a study and scientiﬁc program.
The proposed model considerably reﬂects the current knowledge and gaps via a struc-
tured environmental risk assessment framework; however, it can be expanded with further
ﬁndings. Various scenarios can be put forth, emphasizing the domino effects of ﬁre and
explosion accidents in the oil depot. In this process, the routes and the modes of dispersion
must be well understood and analyzed in more detail by considering other factors, such as
concentrations and main transport processes. Studies can also be designed to scrutinize
the damage to plants and animals, considering various concentrations depending on the
accident in question. In this way, it is possible to provide a more accurate and quantitative
estimation of the damage severity. Furthermore, an emergency preparedness plan can be
developed by providing methods for controlling the environmental damage caused by the
spread of pollution.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, R.D.Z. and T.D.; methodology, R.D.Z.; software, R.D.Z.;
validation, S.M.M., S.A.J. and E.R.; formal analysis, E.R.; investigation, S.M.M.; resources, S.A.J.; data
curation, S.M.M.; writing—original draft preparation, R.D.Z.; writing—review and editing, T.D.;
visualization, E.R.; supervision, S.M.M.; project administration, R.D.Z.; funding acquisition, T.D. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This study was funded by the Ministry of Petroleum of the Islamic Republic of Iran
(970712/16), which is highly appreciated.
Data Availability Statement: Data related to this article are available upon request from the corre-
sponding author.
Acknowledgments: We thank Hajialiloo for providing access to the data.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1. Doregar Zavareh, R.; Dana, T.; Roayaei, E.; Monavari, S.M.; Jozi, S.A. Emission Risk Assessment of Toxic Gases of Floating Roof
Tanks. Pollution 2022, 8, 875–888. [CrossRef]
2. Zinke, R.; Köhler, F.; Klippel, A.; Krause, U.; Leitl, B. Emissions of volatile hydrocarbons from ﬂoating roof tanks and their local
dispersion: Considerations for normal operation and in case of damage. J. Loss Prev. Process Ind. 2020, 66, 104179. [CrossRef]
3. Bouaﬁa, A.; Bougofa, M.; Rouainia, M.; Medjram, M.S. Safety Risk Analysis and Accidents Modeling of a Major Gasoline Release
in Petrochemical Plant. J. Fail Anal. Prev. 2020, 20, 358–369. [CrossRef]
4. Necci, A.; Argenti, F.; Landucci, G.; Cozzani, V . Accident scenarios triggered by lightning strike on atmospheric storage tanks.
Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2014, 127, 30–46. [CrossRef]
5. Qin, R.; Khakzad, N.; Zhu, J. An overview of the impact of Hurricane Harvey on chemical and process facilities in Texas. Int. J.
Disaster Risk Reduct. 2020, 45, 101453. [CrossRef]
6. Shi, L.; Shuai, J.; Xu, K. Fuzzy fault tree assessment based on improved AHP for ﬁre and explosion accidents for steel oil storage
tanks. J. Hazard. Mater. 2014, 278, 529–538. [CrossRef]
7. Zinke, R.; Melnychuk, J.; Köhler, F.; Krause, U. Quantitative risk assessment of emissions from external ﬂoating roof tanks during
normal operation and in case of damages using Bayesian Networks. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2020, 197, 2–12. [CrossRef]

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 16 of 17
8. Pouyakian, M.; Jafari, M.J.; Laal, F.; Nourai, F.; Zarei, E. A comprehensive approach to analyze the risk of ﬂoating roof storage
tanks. Process Saf. Environ. Prot. 2021, 146, 811–836. [CrossRef]
9. Kang, J.; Liang, W.; Zhang, L.; Lu, Z.; Liu, D.; Yin, W.; Zhang, G. A new risk evaluation method for oil storage tank zones based
on the theory of two types of hazards. J. Loss Prev. Process Ind. 2014, 29, 267–276. [CrossRef]
10. Lu, L.; Liang, W.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, H.; Lu, Z.; Shan, J. A comprehensive risk evaluation method for natural gas pipelines by
combining a risk matrix with a bow-tie model. J. Nat. Gas Sci. Eng. 2015, 25, 124–133. [CrossRef]
11. Chen, S.; Chen, B.; Fath, B.D. Ecological risk assessment on the system scale: A review of state-of-the-art models and future
perspectives. Ecol. Model. 2013, 250, 25–33. [CrossRef]
12. Vora, M.; Sanni, S.; Flage, R. An environmental risk assessment framework for enhanced oil recovery solutions from offshore oil
and gas industry. Environ. Impact Assess. Rev. 2021, 88, 106512. [CrossRef]
13. DEAT.Ecological Risk Assesment, Integrated Environmental Management Information Series 6; Department of Environmental Affairs
and Tourism (DEAT): Pretoria, South Africa, 2005.
14. Topuz, E.; Talinli, I.; Aydin, E. Integration of environmental and human health risk assessment for industries using hazardous
materials: A quantitative multi criteria approach for environmental decision makers. Environ. Int. 2011, 37, 393–403. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
15. Khan, F.; Rathnayaka, S.; Ahmed, S. Methods and Models in Process Safety and Risk Management: Past, Present and Future.
Process Saf. Environ. Prot. 2015, 98, 116–147. [CrossRef]
16. Khakzad, N.; Khan, F.; Amyotte, P . Quantitative risk analysis of offshore drilling operations: A Bayesian approach.Saf. Sci. 2013,
57, 108–117. [CrossRef]
17. Xin, P .; Khan, F.; Ahmed, S. Dynamic Hazard Identiﬁcation and Scenario Mapping Using Bayesian Network.Process Saf. Environ.
Prot. 2016, 105, 143–155. [CrossRef]
18. Nakayama, J.; Sakamoto, J.; Kasai, N.; Shibutani, T.; Miyake, A. Preliminary hazard identiﬁcation for qualitative risk assessment
on a hybrid gasoline-hydrogen fueling station with an on-site hydrogen production system using organic chemical hydride. Int. J.
Hydrogen Energy 2016, 41, 7518–7525. [CrossRef]
19. Xie, S.; Dong, S.; Chen, Y.; Peng, Y.; Li, X. A novel risk evaluation method for ﬁre and explosion accidents in oil depots using
bow-tie analysis and risk matrix analysis method based on cloud model theory.Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 2021, 215, 107791. [CrossRef]
20. Guo, X.; Ji, J.; Khan, F.; Ding, L. Fuzzy bayesian network based on an improved similarity aggregation method for risk assessment
of storage tank accident. Process Saf. Environ. Pro.t 2020, 144, 242–252. [CrossRef]
21. Luo, T.; Wu, C.; Duan, L. Fishbone diagram and risk matrix analysis method and its application in safety assessment of natural
gas spherical tank. J. Clean Prod. 2018, 174, 296–304. [CrossRef]
22. Zhao, J.; Li, W.; Bai, C. Risk Evaluation for Fire and Explosion Accidents in the Storage Tank Farm of the Reﬁnery.Chem. Eng.
Trans. 2017, 62, 1345–1350. [CrossRef]
23. Fu, S.; Yan, X.; Zhang, D.; Li, C.; Zio, E. Framework for the quantitative assessment of the risk of leakage from LNG-fueled vessels
by an event tree-CFD. J. Loss Prev. Process Ind. 2017, 43, 42–52. [CrossRef]
24. Wang, J.; Song, W.H. Fire and Explosion Index calculation method incorporating classiﬁed safety measure credits.J. Loss Prev.
Process Ind. 2013, 26, 1128–1133. [CrossRef]
25. Wu, D.; Chen, Z. Quantitative risk assessment of ﬁ re accidents of large-scale oil tanks triggered by lightning. EFA 2016, 63,
172–181. [CrossRef]
26. Zele ˇ náková, M.; Zvijáková, L. Risk analysis within environmental impact assessment of proposed construction activity. Environ.
Impact Assess. Rev. 2017, 62, 76–89. [CrossRef]
27. Qinqin, C.; Jia, Q.; Yuan, Z.; Huang, L. Environmental risk source management system for the petrochemical industry. Process Saf.
Environ. Prot. 2014, 92, 251–260. [CrossRef]
28. Shahriar, A.; Sadiq, R.; Tesfamariam, S. Risk analysis for oil & gas pipelines: A sustainability assessment approach using fuzzy
based bow-tie analysis. J. Loss Prev. Process Ind. 2012, 25, 505–523. [CrossRef]
29. Bi, H.; Si, H. Dynamic risk assessment of oil spill scenario for Three Gorges Reservoir in China based on numerical simulation.
Saf. Sci. 2012, 50, 1112–1118. [CrossRef]
30. Yari, M.; Bagherpour, R.; Khoshouei, M.; Pedram, H. Investigating a comprehensive model for evaluating occupational and
environmental risks of dimensional stone mining. Rud. Geološko-Naft. Zb. 2020, 35, 101–109. [CrossRef]
31. Yari, M.; Monjezi, M.; Bagherpour, R.; Sayadi, A.R. Blasting Operation Management Using Mathematical Methods. Eng. Geol. Soc.
Territ. 2015, 1, 483–493. [CrossRef]
32. Norton, S.B.; Rodier, D.J.; van der Schalie, W.H.; Wood, W.P .; Slimak, M.W.; Gentile, J.H. A framework for ecological risk
assessment at the EPA. Environ. Toxicol. Chem. 1992, 11, 1663–1672. [CrossRef]
33. Waldschläger, K.; Lechthaler, S.; Stauch, G.; Schüttrumpf, H. The way of microplastic through the environment–Application of
the source-pathway-receptor model (review). Sci. Total Environ. 2020, 713, 136584. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
34. Holdgate, M.W. A Perspective of Environmental Pollution. Int. Relat. 1980, 6, 850–851. [CrossRef]
35. AIChE. Dow’s Fire & Explosion Index Hazard Classiﬁcation Guide, 7th ed.; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 1994.
36. Stevens, C.J.; Bell, J.N.B.; Brimblecombe, P .; Clark, C.M.; Dise, N.B.; Fowler, D.; Lovett, G.M.; Wolseley, P .A. The impact of air
pollution on terrestrial managed and natural vegetation: Air pollution impacts on vegetation. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. A Math. Phys.
Eng. Sci. 2020, 378, 20190317. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

Sustainability 2022, 14, 10747 17 of 17
37. Goldemberg, J.; Lucon, O. Energy, Environment and Development, 2nd ed.; Earthscan: Oxford, UK, 2010. [CrossRef]
38. Papadopoulou, M.P .; Antoniou, C. Environmental impact assessment methodological framework for liqueﬁed natural gas
terminal and transport network planning. Energy Policy 2014, 68, 306–319. [CrossRef]
39. Ferdous, R.; Khan, F.; Sadiq, R.; Amyotte, P .; Veitch, B. Analyzing system safety and risks under uncertainty using a bow-tie
diagram: An innovative approach. Process Saf. Environ. Prot. 2011, 91, 1–18. [CrossRef]
40. Tenerelli, P .; Gallego, J.F.; Ehrlich, D. Population density modelling in support of disaster risk assessment.Int. J. Disaster Risk
Reduct. 2015, 13, 334–341. [CrossRef]
41. Kokangül, A.; Polat, U.; Da˘ gsuyu, C. A new approximation for risk assessment using the AHP and Fine Kinney methodologies.
Saf. Sci. 2017, 91, 24–32. [CrossRef]
42. Kampa, M.; Castanas, E. Human health effects of air pollution. Environ. Pollut. 2008, 151, 362–367. [CrossRef]