Academic Editor: Xiupei Yang
Received: 17 January 2025
Revised: 25 February 2025
Accepted: 25 February 2025
Published: 1 March 2025
Citation: Polvara, E.; Legnani, V .;
Invernizzi, M.; Sironi, S. Olfactometric
and Chemical Characterisation of
Gaseous Emission from Crude Oils.
Molecules 2025, 30, 1136. https://
doi.org/10.3390/molecules30051136
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Article
Olfactometric and Chemical Characterisation of Gaseous
Emission from Crude Oils
Elisa Polvara
 , Vittoria Legnani, Marzio Invernizzi *
 and Selena Sironi
Department of Chemistry, Materials and Chemical Engineering “Giulio Natta”, Politecnico di Milano,
Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32, 20133 Milano, Italy; elisa.polvara@polimi.it (E.P .); selena.sironi@polimi.it (S.S.)
* Correspondence: marzio.invernizzi@polimi.it
Abstract: This study focuses on the olfactometric and chemical characterisation of gaseous
and vapour emissions from different crude oils. To investigate this topic, laboratory ex-
periments were set up to obtain comparable gaseous samples: they were estimated in
terms of odour concentration (Cod), via dynamic olfactometry, and chemical-specific char-
acterisation. It was found that, even if considered similar in regard to physical properties
and chemical composition, the gaseous emissions of different crude oils are significantly
different in terms of odorous potential. The observed discrepancy appears to be associated
with the presence of volatile organic sulphur compounds (VOSCs), and the highest values
of Cod were found in samples containing mercaptans and sulphides. In addition, from the
conducted comparison, it appeared that crude odorous potential, in terms of Cod, is not
strictly linked to the quantity of the volatile organic compounds (VOCs), H2S concentration,
or a priori knowledge of the percentage of elemental sulphur in the crude; on the contrary,
the presence of volatile organic sulphur compounds in the gaseous emissions is the most
influential parameter for the odour potential of this matrix.
Keywords: odour emissions; volatile organic sulphur compounds (VOSCs); dynamic
olfactometry; TVOC; odorous potential
1. Introduction
In the oil extraction and refinement field, the handling of crude oil is one of the main
sources of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The loading and unloading operations of
the oil tankers and their storage the tanks in coastal depositories or refineries represent
a major contribution to global VOC emission inventory [ 1,2]. Indeed, the entire process
(from extraction to final use) is connected with the emission of VOCs, particularly BTEX
and light aliphatic hydrocarbons, into the atmosphere [3,4].
The odour harassment connected with the entire crude oil refinery process is a well-
known problem, and different scientific papers and regulatory agencies have highlighted
the topic and delved into the mitigation and the control of odour emissions from this
process [3,5–8]. However, although this theme has been known for some time and the
characterisation of the crude oil liquid matrix has been investigated [ 9–12], the odorous
potential of crude oil gaseous emissions remains very poorly investigated. Indeed, crude
oils comprise a complex and variable matrix, whose chemical composition and correlated
gaseous emissions are not usually known a priori [13,14]. Indeed, in the oil-refining field,
this matrix is characterised from a physical point of view (e.g., density, viscosity, content
of elemental sulphur and nitrogen), and crude oils are generally considered as a unique
category in terms of diffuse emissions, with similar VOC emission properties [11].
Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules30051136

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 2 of 16
Crude oils are a mixture of hydrocarbon compounds, such as paraffins (~30% m/m),
naphthenes (~40% m/m), and aromatics (~25% m/m), plus small amounts of organic
compounds of sulphur, oxygen, and nitrogen (≤ 5% m/m) [15]. Moreover, traces of metallic
compounds such as vanadium, nickel, and sodium may be present. The proportions of
these elements are generally 84.5% carbon, 13% hydrogen, 1–3% sulphur, and less than
1% each of nitrogen, oxygen, metals, and salts [ 15–18]. Therefore, a specific crude oil
may contain a large number of compounds and isomers that are not easily identifiable or
quantifiable individually. In addition, the elemental composition of crude oils depends on
the type and origin of the crude, i.e., the geological origin and processes during formation
and migration can influence the final composition of crude oils [19,20].
Despite this complexity, the scientific and technical literatures describe limited knowl-
edge about crude oils.
As previously noted, due to the great emission potential of crude-handling processes,
in recent years, the attention toward VOC releases from these activities has been increasing
due to the increasing interest in their environmental and health impacts on workers and
the resident population [12,21–27]. Another important issue deriving from the emissions of
VOCs is the odour nuisance, which often raises concern amongst the population because
of its association with potential health effects and to environmental stress correlated with
odorous exposure [28–32]. Even if odour nuisance does not represent a direct problem for
human health, prolonged exposure to odours may cause reversible negative effects that
may adversely affect the quality of life, both in terms of physiological and psychological
outcomes, such as headaches, eye/throat irritation, or stress and emotional distress [31,33].
Despite the growing interest in VOCs emissions, few works have been published
in the scientific literature regarding the chemical characterisation of gaseous emissions
from crude oil storage and handling. In addition, the available studies regarding the
chemical characterisation of crude oils, to the best of our knowledge, did not investigate
their odorous potential.
Concerning crude oil tanker emissions, a recent study [13] exploited simulation soft-
ware to model and identify significant VOCs in hydrocarbon vapour emissions during
crude oil loading operations. The study, based on assumptions regarding the compositions
of the three different crude oils, was more focused on the influence of operating conditions
(i.e., temperature, pressure, and tank level) on vapour emissions rather than on their chemi-
cal compositions. Actually, the simulation provided only a rough qualitative composition of
the vapours, i.e., the lower boiling point VOCs are estimated as the most present, benzene
is the only identified aromatic compound, cyclopentane is the most significant naphthenic
component, and pentane is the main paraffinic component. Moreover, the input data
regarding compositions are just hypotheses, limiting the robustness of the method and the
reliability of the conclusions.
Crude oils gaseous emission was also investigated in a second study [34], in which a
gas chromatograph coupled with a flame ionization detector (FID) was used, analysing hy-
drocarbons emitted from crude oil tankers. It was concluded that, on average, the vapours
released by crude handling are composed of 13% hydrocarbons, i.e., methane, ethane,
propane, butane, pentane, hexane, and a smaller number of heavier components: amongst
all of these, propane and butane constitute the major components. The other components
include 70% nitrogen, 10% carbon dioxide, 5% oxygen, and 2% other compounds, such as
hydrogen sulphide.
In a third study [35], an experimental investigation of crude oil storage tank emissions
was conducted, characterizing the VOCs in the headspace of a typical liquid oil storage
tank battery. Through gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) analysis, the main
constituents identified were alkanes (from propane to nonane, with numerous isomers),

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 3 of 16
only a few aromatics (benzene, toluene, and p-xylene), and CO 2. However, despite the
importance of the cited studies, the correlation between the chemical composition of
crude oil emissions and their odorous potential was never investigated. In addition,
no studies were conducted to assess the differences in emissivity in terms of chemical
composition and odour among different types of crude oil. Therefore, due to the lack of
information available in this field, this paper is a first attempt to deepen the knowledge
of the atmospheric emissions, both in terms chemicals and odour, of different types of
crude oils to obtain a detailed composition of the possible emissions derived from oil
handling. In addition to this aim, an additional, and more daring, objective of this study is
to correlate the obtained odour potential with the resulting chemical composition to find
the parameters mainly responsible for odour harassment and to provide useful information
for their abatement/containment.
2. Results and Discussion
2.1. Cod and TVOC Measurement
First, a preliminary evaluation of the emissivity along the overall bubbling time was
conducted to investigate the concentrations’ trend during the aeration, and consequent
evaporation, of the liquid. Therefore, the evolution of Cod and TVOC over time (i.e., at five
different sampling times: 30 min; 8, 24, 192, and 576 h) was examined for all the crudes.
Due to the similarity in the obtained trends between the tested crude oils, only the outcome
for crude oil A is reported in Figure 1.
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 16 
 
 
storage tank ba ttery. Through gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS) analy-
sis, the main constituents identiﬁed were alkanes (from propane to nonane, with numer-
ous isomers), only a few aromatics (benzene, toluene, and p-xylene), and CO 2. However, 
despite the importance of the cited studies, the correlation between the chemical compo-
sition of crude oil emissions and their odorous potential was never investigated. In addi-
tion, no studies were conducted to assess the diﬀerences in emissivity in terms of chemical 
composition and odour among di ﬀerent types of crude oil. Therefore, due to the lack of 
information available in this ﬁeld, this paper is a ﬁrst attempt to deepen the knowledge of 
the atmospheric emissions, both in terms chemicals and odour, of diﬀerent types of crude 
oils to obtain a detailed composition of the possible emissions derived from oil handling. 
In addition to this aim, an additional, and more daring, objective of this study is to corre-
late the obtained odour potential with the resulting chemical composition to ﬁnd the pa-
rameters mainly responsible for odour harassment and to provide useful information for 
their abatement/containment. 
2. Results and Discussion 
2.1. Cod and TVOC Measurement 
First, a preliminary evaluation of the emissivity along the overall bubbling time was 
conducted to investigate the concentrations’ trend during the aeration, and consequent 
evaporation, of the liquid. Therefore, the evolution of Cod and TVOC over time (i.e., at ﬁve 
diﬀerent sampling times: 30 min; 8, 24, 192, and 576 h) was examined for all the crudes. 
Due to the similarity in the obtained trends  between the tested crude oils, only the out-
come for crude oil A is reported in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. (a) Trend along time of Cod; (b) TVOC of crude oil A. 
Figure 1. (a) Trend along time of Cod; (b) TVOC of crude oil A.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 4 of 16
As expected, as the aeration time proceeds, both the C od and TVOC of the gaseous
samples decrease and, especially in the first portion of bubbling, the majority of volatile
compounds is lost from the liquid, as can be observed by the decreasing in TVOC from
2.8 × 105 to 6.2 × 104 mgC/Nm3 within the first 30 min. Note that this trend is common to
all the crude oils tested in the study: during the bubbling of crude oil, a steep decrease, both
in terms of odour (Cod) and VOCs (TVOC), was observed between the first two samples.
After this preliminary observation, a direct comparison of each crude oil was conducted.
Figure 2 depicts a comparison of TVOC and C od detected in each first sample obtained
from each crude oil. The comparison was conducted on these samples, collected at 30 min
into each bubbling trial because, as previously mentioned (Figure 1), these samples were
the richest in terms of both TVOC and Cod.
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 16 
 
 
As expected, as the aeration time proceeds, both the C od and TVOC of the gaseous 
samples decrease and, especially in the ﬁrst portion of bubbling, the majority of volatile 
compounds is lost from the liquid, as can be observed by the decreasing in TVOC from 
2.8 × 10
5 to 6.2 × 104 mgC/Nm3 within the ﬁrst 30 min. Note that this trend is common to all 
the crude oils tested in the study: during the bubbling of crude oil, a steep decrease, both 
in terms of odour (Cod) and VOCs (TVOC), was observed between the ﬁrst two samples. 
After this preliminary observation, a direct comparison of each crude oil was conducted. 
Figure 2 depicts a comparison of TVOC and C od detected in each ﬁrst sample obtained 
from each crude oil. The comparison was conducted on these samples, collected at 30 min 
into each bubbling trial because, as previously mentioned (Figure 1), these samples were 
the richest in terms of both TVOC and Cod. 
 
Figure 2. (a) TVOC and (b) Cod of ﬁrst samples (30 min) obtained by diﬀerent crude oils. 
Figure 2. (a) TVOC and (b) Cod of first samples (30 min) obtained by different crude oils.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 5 of 16
As can be noted from Figure 2a, the TVOC values of the different crude oils were rather
similar among each other, showing the same order of magnitude and ranging, at most,
by a factor of three between the minimum and maximum. On the contrary, by observing
Figure 2b, a much greater variability in terms of C od was obtained: the C od values span
over two orders of magnitude among the analysed crude oil samples. Thus, despite these
two parameters showing a similar trend concerning the flushing time (Figure 1), the Cod
obtained from different crude oils varied drastically. Therefore, in order to ascertain the
reason for this discrepancy, a comprehensive chemical characterisation was conducted for
the purpose of identifying volatile molecules present in the crude oil vapours.
2.2. Chemical Analyses: Identification and Quantification of VOCs
2.2.1. Speciation and Quantification of VOCs: GC–MS/FID/PFPD
A preliminary GC investigation was conducted to deepen the TVOC downward trend,
obtained by FID analysis, along the bubbling time (Figure 1). Figure 3 reports the GC-FID
chromatograms of crude oil A, corresponding to the first sampling time (30 min), an inter-
mediate time (24 h), and the final time (576 h). In addition, in the reported chromatograms,
the concentrations of three single paraffins (butane, hexane, and octane), significant con-
stituents of the emission, are singularly reported.
For all the crude oils investigated, GC-FID chromatograms showed that, at the begin-
ning of the bubbling, the predominant compounds emitted are the most volatile, with a low
retention time (e.g., isobutane, butane, pentane). Proceeding with the bubbling time, the
predominant species shift to less volatile types (e.g., decane-4-methyl, undecane, dodecane),
eluted at a higher retention time. In addition, even individual VOC concentrations, as
reported in Figure 3, present a general decrease, consistent with expectations and in line
with the TVOC trend (Figure 2). All the observations could be justified by the differing
volatility of the observed species, i.e, along with the bubbling, very volatile compounds
tend to evaporate easily due to their low molecular mass and high vapour pressure. As a
result, the most volatile compounds are released abruptly during the first bubbling period,
with very high concentrations. Conversely, the less volatile compounds are emitted more
slowly and in lower concentrations than the results for the more volatile types. After only
one day of bubbling, some of the most volatile molecules (e.g., butane) are used up, while
heavier types are still present in the stripped gas. At the end of the bubbling trial, even
intermediate chain hydrocarbons (e.g., hexane) are absent in the gas phase, and the heaviest
molecules (e.g., octane) are detected at very low concentrations.
In addition, to understand the variability of observed C od amongst different crude
oils (Figure 1), an extensive investigation of the composition of gas samples, in terms of the
qualification and quantification of compounds, was conducted using GC–MS/FID/PFPD
instrumentation. The identification and quantification obtained for the first sample (30 min,
the most concentrated sample in terms of TVOC and Cod) of all the eight investigated crude
oils are reported in the Supplementary Materials, Tables S1–S8. To evaluate the differences
in odour potential between the crude oils, the study concentrated on examining the gaseous
sample obtained at 30 min, as the decrease in odour is evident throughout the bubbling.
In terms of single VOCs, detected via GC-FID, and TVOC, it is not possible to observe,
from the experimental data, a clear explanation for the difference in Cod observed among
the crude oils.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 6 of 16
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 16 
 
 
 
Figure 3. GC-FID chromatograms for crude oil A, sampled at 30 min (a), 24 h (b) and 576 h (c). ND 
stands for Not Detected. Detailed quanti ﬁcations are reported in Supplementary Materials (Tables 
S1–S8). 
On the contrary, due to the combination of an additional detector (PFPD, speciﬁc for 
sulphur compounds), it was possible to notice a signi ﬁcant variation amongst the ana-
lysed crude oil VOSCs, in terms of organic sulphur compounds. In Figure 4, four diﬀerent 
GC-PFPD chromatograms, detected for the ﬁrst samples (30 min, the most concentrated 
sample in terms of TVOC and Cod), obtained from four diﬀerent crude oils, are presented. 
Figure 3. GC-FID chromatograms for crude oil A, sampled at 30 min ( a), 24 h ( b) and 576 h ( c).
ND stands for Not Detected. Detailed quantifications are reported in Supplementary Materials
(Tables S1–S8).
On the contrary, due to the combination of an additional detector (PFPD, specific for
sulphur compounds), it was possible to notice a significant variation amongst the analysed
crude oil VOSCs, in terms of organic sulphur compounds. In Figure 4, four different
GC-PFPD chromatograms, detected for the first samples (30 min, the most concentrated
sample in terms of TVOC and Cod), obtained from four different crude oils, are presented.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 7 of 16
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 16 
 
 
 
Figure 4. GC-PFPD chromatograms of crude oil A (a), crude oil F (b), crude oil G (c), and crude oil 
E (d). Detailed quantiﬁcations are reported in the Supplementary Materials (Tables S1–S8). 
The chromatograms show a great variability in the content of VOSCs released in the 
gas phase. Indeed, crude oil A was mainly the richest in VOSCs. The identiﬁed molecules 
included ethanethiol, dimethyl sulphide, 1-pr opanethiol, 2-propanethiol, thiophene, di-
methyl disulphide, and methyl ethyl disulphide. An intermediate outcome was obtained 
for crude oils F and G, in which only methanethiol, dimethyl sulphide, and 2-propanethiol 
could be identiﬁed. On the contrary, for crude oil E, no peaks were identiﬁed in correlation 
with the presence of sulphur compounds (Figure 4d), meaning that sulphur compounds 
were not detected (<LoQ = 0.03 mgS/m3). 
2.2.2. Quantiﬁcation of Hydrogen Sulphide 
In parallel to the identiﬁcation of VOCs and VOSCs via GC analysis, the quanti ﬁca-
tion of hydrogen sulphide, released in the stripped gas phase, was conducted by using an 
electrochemical sensor. The importance of mo nitoring this compound is correlated with 
its low odour threshold value (OTV), equal to 5.7 × 10
−4 mg/m3 [36]. The H2S concentration 
of the ﬁrst samples of the examined crude oils is shown in Table S9 of the Supplementary 
Materials. Crude G had the highest content, with 14 mg/Nm3, and crude C had the lowest, 
with 0.46 mg/Nm3. 
2.3. Odour Characterisation: Correlation Between Chemical Composition and Odour Potential 
Thanks to the identi ﬁcation and quanti ﬁcation of single compounds present in the 
gaseous samples, it was possible to investigate the mass contribution in terms of the chem-
ical concentration (expressed in mg/m 3) and odour contribution of the detected VOCs. 
Therefore, a comparison of the mass and the odour contributions of the hydrocarbons and 
sulphur compounds, respectively, was carried out. To evaluate the odour contribution of 
each single compound, the odour activity value (OAV i) of every single compound was 
calculated [37–39]. This parameter represents a ﬁrst approximation of a compound’s con-
tribution to the odour potential of a gaseous sample, and it can be calculated as follows: 
OAVi= Ci
OTVi
 (2)
Figure 4. GC-PFPD chromatograms of crude oil A (a), crude oil F (b), crude oil G (c), and crude oil E
(d). Detailed quantifications are reported in the Supplementary Materials (Tables S1–S8).
The chromatograms show a great variability in the content of VOSCs released in
the gas phase. Indeed, crude oil A was mainly the richest in VOSCs. The identified
molecules included ethanethiol, dimethyl sulphide, 1-propanethiol, 2-propanethiol, thio-
phene, dimethyl disulphide, and methyl ethyl disulphide. An intermediate outcome was
obtained for crude oils F and G, in which only methanethiol, dimethyl sulphide, and 2-
propanethiol could be identified. On the contrary, for crude oil E, no peaks were identified
in correlation with the presence of sulphur compounds (Figure 4d), meaning that sulphur
compounds were not detected (<LoQ = 0.03 mgS/m3).
2.2.2. Quantification of Hydrogen Sulphide
In parallel to the identification of VOCs and VOSCs via GC analysis, the quantification
of hydrogen sulphide, released in the stripped gas phase, was conducted by using an
electrochemical sensor. The importance of monitoring this compound is correlated with its
low odour threshold value (OTV), equal to 5.7 × 10−4 mg/m3 [36]. The H2S concentration
of the first samples of the examined crude oils is shown in Table S9 of the Supplementary
Materials. Crude G had the highest content, with 14 mg/Nm 3, and crude C had the lowest,
with 0.46 mg/Nm3.
2.3. Odour Characterisation: Correlation Between Chemical Composition and Odour Potential
Thanks to the identification and quantification of single compounds present in the
gaseous samples, it was possible to investigate the mass contribution in terms of the
chemical concentration (expressed in mg/m3) and odour contribution of the detected VOCs.
Therefore, a comparison of the mass and the odour contributions of the hydrocarbons and
sulphur compounds, respectively, was carried out. To evaluate the odour contribution
of each single compound, the odour activity value (OAV i) of every single compound
was calculated [37–39]. This parameter represents a first approximation of a compound’s
contribution to the odour potential of a gaseous sample, and it can be calculated as follows:
OAVi = Ci
OTVi
(1)

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 8 of 16
where Ci is the concentration of a detected compound I, and OTV i is its odour thresh-
old value.
Therefore, for the first sample of every type of crude oil, the calculation of the OAVs
for each detected compound was conducted. For the sake of brevity, the OAV results
of crude oil A were taken as an illustrative case. In Figure 5, the OAV values, together
with the mass concentration of some significant compounds detected in the first sample
(after 30 min of bubbling), are reported as follows: six hydrocarbon compounds, both
aliphatic and aromatic, amongst the most concentrated (i.e., butane, n-hexane, nonane,
cyclohexane, toluene, ethylbenzene), and the five sulphur compounds (i.e., ethanethiol,
dimethyl sulphide, 1-propanethiol, 2-propanethiol, dimethyl disulphide).
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 16 
 
 
where Ci is the concentration of a detected compound I, and OTV i is its odour threshold 
value. 
Therefore, for the ﬁrst sample of every type of crude oil, the calculation of the OAVs 
for each detected compound was conducted. Fo r the sake of brevity, the OAV results of 
crude oil A were taken as an illustrative case. In Figure 5, the OAV values, together with 
the mass concentration of some signiﬁcant compounds detected in the ﬁrst sample (after 
30 min of bubbling), are reported as follows: six hydrocarbon compounds, both aliphatic 
and aromatic, amongst the most concentrated (i.e., butane, n-hexane, nonane, cyclohex-
ane, toluene, ethylbenzene), and the ﬁve sulphur compounds (i.e., ethanethiol, dimethyl 
sulphide, 1-propanethiol, 2-propanethiol, dimethyl disulphide). 
 
Figure 5. Percentage contribution of concentration (mg/m 3) and OAV of main hydrocarbons and 
sulphur compounds for the ﬁrst sample of crude oil A. 
The most signiﬁcant compounds in terms of odour (high OAV values, black columns 
in Figure 5) are mainly sulphur compounds, which, however, are in the minority in terms 
of concentration (low concentration values, grey columns in Figure 5). In contrast, hydro-
carbons, the main constituents of the gase ous mixture (high concentration values, grey 
columns in Figure 5), exhibit a negligible odour contribution. From this evidence, it ap-
pears possible to state that the observed diﬀerence in odour concentration for the diﬀerent 
crude samples (Figure 2) can therefore be correlated to the presence of these sulphur com-
pounds. Indeed, crudes A, F, and G, which presented peaks in the PFPD chromatograms 
(Figure 4), were also the most odorous types, with a C od always higher than 10 6 ouE/m3 
(Figure 2). 
A further investigation, carried out to better investigate the odour potential of crude 
oils, was the search for a relationship among odour concentration, H2S concentration, and 
the percentage of sulphur content in the liquid matrix (%S). Sulphur content (%S) repre-
sents the quantity of sulphur present in the crude oil, and this parameter describes the 
weight percent of sulphur in the crude oil. Th e higher the %S value, the richer it is in 
sulphur, and therefore, the more sour-smelling the crude oil. It is the norm that the matrix 
emitting the most H
2S or in general, containing the largest proportion of sulphur (ex-
pressed as % m/m), is likely the most odorous.  
Figure 5. Percentage contribution of concentration (mg/m3) and OAV of main hydrocarbons and
sulphur compounds for the first sample of crude oil A.
The most significant compounds in terms of odour (high OAV values, black columns
in Figure 5) are mainly sulphur compounds, which, however, are in the minority in terms
of concentration (low concentration values, grey columns in Figure 5). In contrast, hydro-
carbons, the main constituents of the gaseous mixture (high concentration values, grey
columns in Figure 5), exhibit a negligible odour contribution. From this evidence, it appears
possible to state that the observed difference in odour concentration for the different crude
samples (Figure 2) can therefore be correlated to the presence of these sulphur compounds.
Indeed, crudes A, F, and G, which presented peaks in the PFPD chromatograms (Figure 4),
were also the most odorous types, with a Cod always higher than 106 ouE/m3 (Figure 2).
A further investigation, carried out to better investigate the odour potential of crude
oils, was the search for a relationship among odour concentration, H2S concentration, and
the percentage of sulphur content in the liquid matrix (%S). Sulphur content (%S) represents
the quantity of sulphur present in the crude oil, and this parameter describes the weight
percent of sulphur in the crude oil. The higher the %S value, the richer it is in sulphur, and
therefore, the more sour-smelling the crude oil. It is the norm that the matrix emitting the
most H2S or in general, containing the largest proportion of sulphur (expressed as % m/m),
is likely the most odorous.
In the following diagrams, the odour concentration of each crude sample was reported
as a function of the percentage of sulphur content (Figure 6a) and as a function of H 2S
measured in the first minutes (Figure 6b).

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 9 of 16
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 16 
 
 
In the following diagrams, the odour concentration of each crude sample was re-
ported as a function of the percentage of sulphur content (Figure 6a) and as a function of 
H2S measured in the ﬁrst minutes (Figure 6b). 
 
 
Figure 6. Trend of odour concentration as a function of %S (a) and as a function of H2S (b). 
Figure 6 clearly shows that crude oil A signi ﬁcantly alters the linear correlations re-
lated to odorous potential. It was identiﬁed as the most odorous sample, with a Cod for the 
ﬁrst sample (30 min) equal to 5.9 × 10 6 ouE/m3 but corresponding to a relatively low sul-
phur content (%S = 0.64%) and H2S concentration (3.9 mg/Nm3). 
By removing crude oil A (Figure 7) from the graph, a linear correlation between 
odour concentration and the percentage of sulphur in the liquid could be observed. Also, 
the correlation between C
od and H2S appears to be slightly linear. Thus, as a ﬁrst approxi-
mation, the sulphur content of crude oil can provide preliminary information about its 
odorous property, while the concentration of hydrogen sulphide seems to be a less eﬀec-
tive indicator for predicting odour concentration. 
Figure 6. Trend of odour concentration as a function of %S (a) and as a function of H2S (b).
Figure 6 clearly shows that crude oil A significantly alters the linear correlations related
to odorous potential. It was identified as the most odorous sample, with a Cod for the first
sample (30 min) equal to 5.9 × 106 ouE/m3 but corresponding to a relatively low sulphur
content (%S = 0.64%) and H2S concentration (3.9 mg/Nm3).
By removing crude oil A (Figure 7) from the graph, a linear correlation between odour
concentration and the percentage of sulphur in the liquid could be observed. Also, the
correlation between Cod and H2S appears to be slightly linear. Thus, as a first approxi-
mation, the sulphur content of crude oil can provide preliminary information about its
odorous property, while the concentration of hydrogen sulphide seems to be a less effective
indicator for predicting odour concentration.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 10 of 16
Molecules 2025, 30, x FOR PEER REVIEW 10 of 16 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Trend of odour concentration as a function of %S (a) and as a function of H2S (b) (excluding 
crude oil A). 
To investigate the anomalous trend of the C crude, the VOSCs observed in the vapour 
of sample A was investigated in-depth. Indeed,  as previously mentioned, crude C was 
one of the most odorous crude oils. Therefore, a detailed comparison, in terms of VOSCs, 
was conducted for the three most odorous crude oils (crude oils A, F, G, and H, with C od 
values higher than 106 ouE/m3, Figure 2). The VOSCs detected in the three crude oils, with 
their OTVs, are reported in Table 1. In Tabl e S10, the molecule structure of the VOSCs 
detected in the samples A, F, G, and H are reported. 
Figure 7. Trend of odour concentration as a function of %S (a) and as a function of H2S (b) (excluding
crude oil A).
To investigate the anomalous trend of the C crude, the VOSCs observed in the vapour
of sample A was investigated in-depth. Indeed, as previously mentioned, crude C was one
of the most odorous crude oils. Therefore, a detailed comparison, in terms of VOSCs, was
conducted for the three most odorous crude oils (crude oils A, F, G, and H, with Cod values
higher than 106 ouE/m3, Figure 2). The VOSCs detected in the three crude oils, with their
OTVs, are reported in Table 1. In Table S10, the molecule structure of the VOSCs detected
in the samples A, F, G, and H are reported.
From the speciation of the samples, as previously highlighted in Figure 4, crude oil
A presents different types of VOSCs compared to those in the other crude oils analysed.
Compared with other crude oil emissions, crude oil A presents the most variable range
of sulphur compounds (Figure 4 and Table 1). The additional sulphur compounds ob-
served in crude oil A (ethanethiol, 1-propanethiol, dimethyl disulphide, methyl ethyl
disulphide), characterised by a lower OTV (as reported in Table 1), could lead to a signifi-

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 11 of 16
cant increase in odour potential, thus explaining the observed peak odour concentration
value (5.9 × 106 ouE/m3), justifying the observed outlier and highlighting the importance
of VOSCs in crude oil odour potential. Therefore, to effectively assess the odour potential
of crude oils, the presence of VOSCs within the vapour is predominant in terms of odour
potential, compared to the effects of other known properties (H2S content or %S present in
the liquid matrix).
Table 1. Detected sulphur compounds (highlighted with •) for crudes A, F, G, and H. The points
indicate the presence of a compound.
Detected Sulphur Compound OTV
[mg/m3] A F G H
Methanethiol 1.4 × 10−4 • • •
Ethanethiol 2.2 × 10−5 • •
Dimethyl sulphide 7.6 × 10−3 • • •
2-Propanethiol 1.9 × 10−5 • • • •
1-Propanethiol 4.0 × 10−5 •
Dimethyl disulphide 8.5 × 10−3 •
Methyl Ethyl Disulphide - •
3. Materials and Methods
3.1. Experimental Setup
In this study, eight liquid crude oil samples, with different worldwide origins, were
investigated. Each was referenced with a different letter (A to H). To simulate gaseous
emissions from crude oils, a laboratory method developed and described in a previous
paper [7] was used for the characterisation of diffuse emissions from external floating roof
tanks in which crude oils are generally stored. The experiment was based on the bubbling
of the crude oil liquid sample with a controlled nitrogen flux, generating a gaseous outlet
enriched with the stripped compounds. To evaluate the concentration trend during the
time, for each crude oil, the gaseous emissions were sampled with Nalophan TM bags
(Tillmanns S.p.A., Milan, Italy) at different flushing times: 30 min, 8 h, 24 h, 192 h (8 days),
and 576 h (24 days) from the beginning of the fluxing.
Each obtained gaseous sample was analysed both in chemical and olfactometric terms,
as described in the following paragraphs.
3.2. Determination of Odour Concentration (Cod): Dynamic Olfactometry
Dynamic olfactometry is the standardised method for measuring the odour concentra-
tion (Cod) of gaseous emissions using the human sense of smell. It involves the collection
of gaseous samples, the dilution with odourless air, and the presentation of the sample to a
standardised panel at increasing concentrations until the odour is detected. The outcome of
the analysis is the odour concentration of the sample, expressed in European odour units
per cubic meter (ouE/m3). According to the standard, it is defined as the number of times
the gaseous sample is diluted with neutral air before its odour is statistically no longer
perceivable [40]. The analyses were performed using an olfactometer (TO8, Ecoma GmbH,
Kiel, Germany), based on the “Yes/No” method, involving four examiners during the
olfactometric analysis. The panel involved is selected through tests of olfactory sensitivity
concerning the standardised compound n-butanol (60 ppm in nitrogen SAPIO Group,
Caponago, Italy), according to the criteria prescribed by the technical standard.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 12 of 16
3.3. Determination of Chemical Composition
The gaseous samples were analysed using different analytical instrumentations, com-
plementary with each other, to obtain the most complete quantitative and qualitative
characterisation of the investigated gaseous samples.
3.3.1. Determination of TVOC: Flame Ionization Detector (FID)
A flame ionization detector (FID) instrument was used to measure the total volatile
organic carbon (TVOC) in the gaseous samples. The equipment used experimentally was
the Total Hydrocarbon Analyzer RS 55-T (Ratfisch, Poing, Germany), in compliance with
the standard [ 41]. The instrument was calibrated with specific gas bottles of propane
(SAPIO Group, Caponago, Italy). The concentration of propane, expressed in ppm and
measured during the FID analysis, can be easily converted to TVOC, as follows (2):
CTVOC = CC3H8 × 3 × MC
VM
= CC3H8 × 3 × 12
22.4 (2)
where CTVOC is the TVOC concentration of the samples (expressed as mgC/Nm3), CC3H8 is
the FID output (in ppm of propane, C3H8) to be converted, MC is the molecular weight of
the carbon atom (12 g/mol), and VM is the normal volume of air (22.4 NL/mol) at 273.15 K
and 101.3 kPa.
3.3.2. Quantification and Identification of VOCs: GC-FID/MS/PFPD
To obtain the quantification and identification of single VOCs present in the gaseous
samples, analyses using a gas chromatograph (GC, Agilent, model 8890, Folsom, CA, USA)
coupled with three detectors (a single quadrupole mass spectrometer detector, MS Agilent
5977B MSD, Folsom, CA, USA; an FID; and a pulsed flame photometric detector, PFPD,
OI 5883, OI Analytics, TX, USA) were conducted. The analytical setup was described in
detail in a previous study [ 42–44] and is briefly described below. By using a calibrated
pump (Markes, Air Server-xr, Bridgend, UK), air samples were collected directly from the
bags, utilized for the olfactometric measurements, and submitted to thermal desorption
(Unity-xrTM, Markes International Ltd., Bridgend, UK) to preconcentrate the analytes
present in the gaseous samples. The gas was then sent directly to a cold trap (TO-15/TO-
17 air toxics, compatible with the simultaneous analysis of analytes from C 2/3 to C30/32,
Markes International Ltd.), maintained at −27 ◦C. The thermal desorption was conducted
by heating the trap from −27 ◦C to 300 ◦C, and the compounds were sent by hot transfer
line into the capillary column (DB-Sulphur SCD, 60 m × 0.320 mm × 4.20 µm, Agilent J&W,
Folsom, CA, USA).
The quantitative estimation of analytes was conducted by GC-FID signals, using an
external standard calibration method. Standard cylinders (SIAD SpA, Bergamo, Italy),
containing various odorous and/or volatile compounds at known concentrations, were
used to obtain molecule-specific response factors. Thanks to the PFPD detector, it was
possible to specifically detect and quantify volatile organic sulphur compounds (VOSCs),
notoriously known for their strong odour contributions [45].
The VOCs were identified using an MS detector by comparing the spectra with the
NIST20 database (NIST/EPA/NIH Mass Spectral Library, Version 2.4, 25 March 2020).
3.3.3. Hydrogen Sulphide Quantification: Electrochemical Sensor
In addition to the GC analysis, a specific analysis was performed to determine hydro-
gen sulphide levels. To evaluate the H2S content of the various gaseous samples, a specific
electrochemical sensor (Optima 7 biogas analyser, MRU GmbH, Neckarsulm, Germany)
was used. This instrument’s measuring range is 0–2800 mg/m3 H2S.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 13 of 16
4. Conclusions
The handling of crude oil is one of the main sources of VOCs and odour in the oil
refining industry. Despite the importance of this topic, only few scientific papers are
available regarding the detailed chemical characterisation of crude oil vapour emissions.
In addition, no studies dealing with the odour potential of these emissions are available.
Therefore, this paper aimed to analyse, both chemically and via dynamic olfactometry, the
gaseous and vapour emission of eight different crude oils, investigating their chemical
composition and assessing their odour potential. The gaseous samples were obtained by a
controlled-bubbling of the different liquid samples.
It was found that odour and TVOC concentrations of gaseous emissions have a similar
decreasing trend over the bubbling time, according to the volatility trend, i.e., very volatile
VOCs are emitted in the early stages of bubbling and in higher concentrations that gradually
decrease. Focusing the analysis on the first, and richest, sample (i.e., 30 min of bubbling),
Cod was very variable amongst crudes compared to the results for TVOC. As observed
from GC–MS/FID/PFPD analysis, the emission of VOCs does not drastically influence
the odour concentration (with a similar emissive profile for all tested crude oils), but the
presence of sulphur compounds (i.e., mercaptans and sulphides) in the gaseous emissions
of specific crude oils explains the variability of the observed Cod. VOSCs characterised by
very low OTVs (i.e., higher OAVs) could be associated with high values of Cod measured
for these crude oils. Indeed, the crudes with the highest C od values (crudes A, F, G, and
H, with a Cod with an order of magnitude of 106 ouE/m3) are characterised by the widest
presence of VOSCs. From the monitoring of H2S and considering the sulphur content (%S)
in the crude oil, it emerged that the odour concentration of this kind of matrix is generally
proportional to the sulphur content, and less significantly, to the H2S. This general trend
is, however, heavily skewed considering the crude oil A. Indeed, this crude is the most
odorous, even if it does not exhibit the highest content of sulphur (%S) and H 2S. This
variation can be linked to its release of VOSCs; these compounds are characterised by a
very low OTV (on the order of µg/m3).
As a general outcome, it clearly appears that crude oils, even if considered similar
from a physical and elemental point of view, are actually very different in terms of the
chemical composition of vapours. The derived diffuse odorous emissions, and therefore,
their potential impact, could be very different depending on the raw material, and the
crude oils’ odorous potential is correlated, based on the results obtained, more with the
presence of VOSC than with other physical properties (known a priori) of the crude. This
result is extremely important for addressing, in greater detail, the issue of odour emissions
from the storage/movement of crude oil.
Different future developments of this work should be explored. Firstly, an improved
chemical composition analysis of crude oil vapours could be conducted by integrating a
volatile nitrogen compound detector. Moreover, this analysis could be expanded to a larger
number of crude oil samples. Finally, possible strategies to mitigate the odour impact of
crude oil emissions could be investigated, based on the results of this study. Potential
approaches may include optimizing storage and handling conditions, implementing ad-
vanced vapour recovery systems, or developing tailored treatment methods to reduce the
concentration of the most odour-relevant compounds.
Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https:
//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/molecules30051136/s1, Table S1: Chemical species attribution
for crude A—30 min. Table S2: Chemical species attribution for crude B—30 min; Table S3: Chemical
species attribution for crude C—30 min; Table S4: Chemical species attribution for crude D—30 min;
Table S5: Chemical species attribution for crude E—30 min; Table S6: Chemical species attribution for

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 14 of 16
crude F—30 min; Table S7: Chemical species attribution for crude G—30 min; Table S8: Chemical
species attribution for crude H—30 min; Table S9: H2S concentration of first 30 min, %S, and first
sample Cod for each crude; Table S10. Molecule structures of detected VOSCs in the samples A, F, G,
and H.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, E.P . and M.I.; methodology, M.I.; formal analysis, E.P .
and M.I.; investigation, V .L.; resources, S.S.; data curation, E.P . and V .L.; writing—original draft
preparation, E.P . and V .L.; writing—review and editing, M.I. and S.S.; visualization, E.P . and M.I.;
supervision, S.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: The data used are confidential.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Abbreviations
%S mass sulphur content
BTEX benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xilenes
Cod odour concentration
FID flame ionization detector
GC gas chromatography
GC-MS gas chromatography–mass spectrometry
MS mass spectrometry
OAV odour activity value
OTV odour threshold value
PFPD pulsed flame photometric detector
TVOC total volatile organic carbon
VOC volatile organic compound
VOSC volatile organic sulphur compound
References
1. Deluchi, M.A. Emissions from the Production, Storage, and Transport of Crude Oil and Gasoline. Air Waste 1993, 43, 1486–1495.
[CrossRef]
2. Invernizzi, M.; Sironi, S. Odour Emission Rate Estimation Methods for Hydrocarbon Storage Tanks. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2021, 85,
67–72. [CrossRef]
3. Rajabi, H.; Mosleh, M.H.; Mandal, P .; Lea-Langton, A.; Sedighi, M. Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Crude Oil
Processing—Global Emission Inventory and Environmental Release. Sci. Total Environ. 2020, 727, 138654. [CrossRef]
4. Wang, H.; Fischer, T.; Wieprecht, W.; Möller, D. A Predictive Method for Crude Oil Volatile Organic Compounds Emission from
Soil: Evaporation and Diffusion Behavior Investigation of Binary Gas Mixtures. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2015, 22, 7735–7743.
[CrossRef]
5. Motalebi Damuchali, A.; Guo, H. Evaluation of Odour Properties, Their Relationships, and Impact of an Oil Refinery Plant on the
Surrounding Environment Using Field Measurements. Atmos. Environ. 2020, 230, 117480. [CrossRef]
6. Jafarinejad, S. Odours Emission and Control in the Petroleum Refinery: A Review. Curr. Sci. Perspect. 2016, 2, 78–82.
7. Invernizzi, M.; Ilare, J.; Capelli, L.; Sironi, S. Proposal of a Method for Evaluating Odour Emissions from Refinery Storage Tanks.
Chem. Eng. Trans. 2018, 68, 49–54. [CrossRef]
8. Motalebi Damuchali, A.; Guo, H. Developing an Odour Emission Factor for an Oil Refinery Plant Using Reverse Dispersion
Modeling. Atmos. Environ. 2020, 222, 117167. [CrossRef]
9. Ren, L.; Wu, J.; Qian, Q.; Liu, X.; Meng, X.; Zhang, Y.; Shi, Q. Separation and Characterization of Sulfoxides in Crude Oils. Energy
Fuels 2019, 33, 796–804. [CrossRef]
10. Romero Yanes, J.F.; Ferreira, A.F.B.; Gomes De Medeiros, P .Y.; Bassani, G.S.; Fleming, F.P .; Feitosa, F.X.; De Sant’ana, H.B. Phase
Behavior for Crude Oil and Methane Mixtures: Crude Oil Property Comparison. Energy Fuels 2020, 34, 5188–5195. [CrossRef]

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 15 of 16
11. Vetere, A.; Pröfrock, D.; Schrader, W. Qualitative and Quantitative Evaluation of Sulfur-Containing Compound Types in Heavy
Crude Oil and Its Fractions. Energy Fuels 2021, 35, 8723–8732. [CrossRef]
12. Wang, H.; Geppert, H.; Fischer, T.; Wieprecht, W.; Möller, D. Determination of Volatile Organic and Polycyclic Aromatic
Hydrocarbons in Crude Oil with Efficient Gas-Chromatographic Methods. J. Chromatogr. Sci. 2015, 53, 647–654. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
13. Virdi, S.S.; Lee, L.Y.; Li, C.; Dev, A.K. Simulation of VOC Emission During Loading Operations in a Crude Oil Tanker.Int. J. Marit.
Eng. 2021, 163, 1–16. [CrossRef]
14. Yassaa, N.; Cecinato, A. Composition of Torched Crude Oil Organic Particulate Emitted by Refinery and Its Similarity to
Atmospheric Aerosol in the Surrounding Area. Chemosphere 2005, 60, 1660–1666. [CrossRef]
15. Aitani, A.M. Oil Refining and Products. Encycl. Energy 2004, 4, 715–729. [CrossRef]
16. Norman, J.H. Nontechnical Guide to Petroleum Geology, Exploration, Drilling, and Production, 2nd ed.; Pennwell Books: Tulsa, OK,
USA, 2001.
17. Ollivier, B.; Magot, M. (Eds.) Petroleum Microbiology; ASM Press: Washington, DC, USA, 2005; ISBN 9781683671961.
18. Speight, J.G. The Chemistry and Technology of Petroleum, 3rd ed.; CRC press: New York, NY, USA, 1999.
19. He, Q.; Chen, S.; Wang, J.; Zhao, L.; Ma, Z. Geochemical Characteristics and Origin of Crude Oil from Carboniferous Volcanic
Rocks in the Hongche Fault Zone of the Junggar Basin of China. Front. Earth Sci. 2022, 10, 953245. [CrossRef]
20. Shan, Y.; Chai, H.; Wang, H.; Zhang, L.; Su, P .; Kong, X.; Bai, Z.; Cheng, M.; Zhang, H. Origin and Characteristics of the Crude
Oils and Condensates in the Callovian-Oxfordian Carbonate Reservoirs of the Amu Darya Right Bank Block, Turkmenistan.
Lithosphere 2022, 2022, 5446117. [CrossRef]
21. Xuan, L.; Ma, Y.; Xing, Y.; Meng, Q.; Song, J.; Chen, T.; Wang, H.; Wang, P .; Zhang, Y.; Gao, P . Source, Temporal Variation and
Health Risk of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) from Urban Traffic in Harbin, China. Environ. Pollut. 2021, 270, 116074.
[CrossRef]
22. Davidson, C.J.; Hannigan, J.H.; Bowen, S.E. Effects of Inhaled Combined Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene, and Xylenes (BTEX):
Toward an Environmental Exposure Model. Environ. Toxicol. Pharmacol. 2021, 81, 103518. [CrossRef]
23. Zhao, Q.; Li, Y.; Chai, X.; Xu, L.; Zhang, L.; Ning, P .; Huang, J.; Tian, S. Interaction of Inhalable Volatile Organic Compounds and
Pulmonary Surfactant: Potential Hazards of VOCs Exposure to Lung. J. Hazard. Mater. 2019, 369, 512–520. [CrossRef]
24. Kim, H.; Festa, N.; Burrows, K.; Kim, D.C.; Gill, T.M.; Bell, M.L. Is Residential Exposure to Oil Refineries a Novel Contextual Risk
Factor for Coronary Heart Disease? Environ. Res. 2024, 244, 117965. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25. Lv, Z.; Liu, X.; Bai, H.; Nie, L.; Li, G. Process-Specific Volatile Organic Compounds Emission Characteristics, Environmental
Impact and Health Risk Assessments of the Petrochemical Industry in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.
Int. 2024, 31, 3938–3950. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
26. Khajeh Hoseini, L.; Jalilzadeh Yengejeh, R.; Mohammadi Rouzbehani, M.; Sabzalipour, S. Health Risk Assessment of Volatile
Organic Compounds (VOCs) in a Refinery in the Southwest of Iran Using SQRA Method. Front. Public. Health 2022, 10, 978354.
[CrossRef]
27. Invernizzi, M.; Roveda, L.; Polvara, E.; Sironi, S. Lights and Shadows of the Voc Emission Quantification. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2021,
85, 109–114. [CrossRef]
28. Polvara, E.; Roveda, L.; Invernizzi, M.; Capelli, L.; Sironi, S. Estimation of Emission Factors for Hazardous Air Pollutants from
Petroleum Refineries. Atmosphere 2021, 12, 1531. [CrossRef]
29. Wojnarowska, M.; Plichta, G.; Sagan, A.; Plichta, J.; Stobiecka, J.; Sołtysik, M. Odour Nuisance and Urban Residents’ Quality of
Life: A Case Study in Kraków’s in Plaszow District. Urban. Clim. 2020, 34, 100704. [CrossRef]
30. Wu, C.; Liu, J.; Liu, S.; Li, W.; Yan, L.; Shu, M.; Zhao, P .; Zhou, P .; Cao, W. Assessment of the Health Risks and Odor Concentration
of Volatile Compounds from a Municipal Solid Waste Landfill in China.Chemosphere 2018, 202, 1–8. [CrossRef]
31. Guadalupe-Fernandez, V .; De Sario, M.; Vecchi, S.; Bauleo, L.; Michelozzi, P .; Davoli, M.; Ancona, C. Industrial Odour Pollution
and Human Health: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Environ. Health 2021, 20, 108. [CrossRef]
32. Horton, R.A.; Wing, S.; Marshall, S.W.; Brownley, K.A. Malodor as a Trigger of Stress and Negative Mood in Neighbors of
Industrial Hog Operations. Am. J. Public Health 2009, 99 (Suppl. S3), S610–S615. [CrossRef]
33. Hooiveld, M.; van Dijk, C.E.; van der Sman-De Beer, F.; Smit, L.A.M.; Vogelaar, M.; Wouters, I.M.; Heederik, D.J.; Joris Yzermans,
C. Odour Annoyance in the Neighbourhood of Livestock Farming—Perceived Health and Health Care Seeking Behaviour. Ann.
Agric. Environ. Med. 2015, 22, 55–61. [CrossRef]
34. Tamaddoni, M.; Sotudeh-Gharebagh, R.; Nario, S.; Hajihosseinzadeh, M.; Mostoufi, N. Experimental Study of the VOC Emitted
from Crude Oil Tankers. Process Saf. Environ. Prot. 2014, 92, 929–937. [CrossRef]
35. Khoramfar, S.; Jones, K.D.; Boswell, J.; Ghobadi, J.; Paca, J. Evaluation of a Sequential Biotrickling–Biofiltration Unit for Removal
of VOCs from the Headspace of Crude Oil Storage Tanks. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 2018, 93, 1778–1789. [CrossRef]
36. Nagata, Y. Measurement of Odor Threshold by Triangle Odor Bag Method. Odor Meas. Rev. 2003, 118, 118–127.

Molecules 2025, 30, 1136 16 of 16
37. Rincón, C.A.; De Guardia, A.; Couvert, A.; Wolbert, D.; Le Roux, S.; Soutrel, I.; Nunes, G. Odor Concentration (OC) Prediction
Based on Odor Activity Values (OAVs) during Composting of Solid Wastes and Digestates. Atmos. Environ. 2019, 201, 1–12.
[CrossRef]
38. Cadwallader, K. Measuring Cheese Flavor. In Improving the Flavour of Cheese; University of Illinois: Champaign, IL, USA, 2007;
pp. 401–417. [CrossRef]
39. Capelli, L.; Sironi, S.; Del Rosso, R.; Céntola, P .; Il Grande, M. A Comparative and Critical Evaluation of Odour Assessment
Methods on a Landfill Site. Atmos. Environ. 2008, 42, 7050–7058. [CrossRef]
40. EN 13725:2022; Stationary Source Emissions—Determination of Odour Concentration by Dynamic Olfactometry and Odour
Emission Rate. CEN: Brussels, Belgium, 2022.
41. EN 12619:2013; Determination of the Mass Concentration of Total Gaseous Organic Carbon—Continuous Flame Ionisation
Detector Method. CEN: Brussels, Belgium, 2013; ISBN 9780580738050.
42. Polvara, E.; Gallego, E.; Invernizzi, M.; Perales, J.F.; Sironi, S. Chemical Characterization of Odorous Emissions: A Comparative
Performance Study of Different Sampling Methods. Talanta 2023, 253, 124110. [CrossRef]
43. Polvara, E.; Morosini, D.; Invernizzi, M.; Sironi, S. Analysis of Odorous VOCs Using TD-GC-MS/FID/PFPD: Development and
Applications to Real Samples. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2022, 95, 151–156. [CrossRef]
44. Massimi, N.; Polvara, E.; Invernizzi, M.; Sironi, S. VOSCs Analysis through TD-GC-MS/FID/PFPD: Tools to Enhance Detectivity
and Selectivity in Real Samples. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2024, 112, 91–96. [CrossRef]
45. Barczak, R.J.; Fisher, R.M.; Le-Minh, N.; Stuetz, R.M. Identification of Volatile Sulfur Odorants Emitted from Ageing Wastewater
Biosolids. Chemosphere 2022, 287, 132210. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.